title:
LPT: For real insomniacs, DON'T focus on your breathing. Instead, let your imagination wander, and let daydreaming turn into real dreaming. If it can put you to sleep in class, it can put you to sleep in bed.

content:
I'm an insomniac, a bad one. It has affected my life quite negatively at times, and I find that many of the tricks that other people use to sleep don't work for me.

(Disclaimer: If breathing concentration works for you, go for it. But I know that for myself and many other insomniacs it doesn't. For you special and unfortunate few, try daydreaming... at night.)

When your eyelids shut, **don't try not to think**. We all know that leads into the cycle of thinking about trying not to think and thinking about trying to not think about thinking about not thinking... and then it's 7AM and you're a bleary-eyed wreck. If it doesn't work for you, don't do it.

Instead, allow your mind to think. But not about real world problems or people. Daydream. Look at the swirls of color inside your eyelids and watch them morph into new shapes and figures. Let your mind's eye show you whatever fantastic situations and characters it wants to. With your eyes closed, you can see some pretty psychedelic stuff.

It's fun in a very relaxing way, and once you're doing it, you're almost asleep. You're daydreaming, but when you fall fully asleep there are no consequences. The teacher isn't going to call you out. You won't hit your head on your desk. You'll just be asleep.

I like this technique because:

* It's fun
* It stops your mind from racing and lets it walk 
* I see cool psychedelic stuff without being on drugs 
* It relaxes me automatically, more than systematic relaxation methods
* It leads naturally into sleep 

This might sound like a bunch of hippie bullshit to you, but I would urge you to try it before you knock it. No drugs were used in this technique and it got me through an absolutely hellish few semesters at college.

tl;dr: Do not try to shut down your brain. Just turn on the screensaver and look at cool stuff until it goes to sleep on its own.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/12oh49/
author:Renaissir
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1750
numComments:295
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True