title:
LPT: Using the obituaries to buy a used car

content:
My father, who resembles the classic smooth talkin' used car salesman type clues me in on a scheme he used when he was my age in obtaining a used car. Before I get into it, let me first say that I am somewhat ashamed to share this, but it did work. I got my first car this way and saved quite a bit of money in the process. Note that this was before the internet was around, but I'd imagine it would still work today.

His tip was thus: "Instead of looking though used car ads, go through the obituaries."

His reasoning behind this is pretty simple. When the elderly pass on, they generally leave behind a car. The car generally isn't wanted by the surviving family members and they're looking to make a quick buck off of it and/or just looking to get rid of it during the estate sell off. Sometimes they're happy to practically give it away to a struggling college kid who needs a method of transportation. This is where you come in.

What you do is you go through the obituaries, look up contact information for the deceased and call a family member with "Hi I'm calling about the used car your selling"

Most folks will tell you that you have the wrong number, but you'll eventually get someone who will have a lightbulb go off in they're head and will make a deal with you. It takes a bit of fishing, but it does work. 

Generally speaking, the cars you do get off of using this method are in very good condition and generally just need a brake job (the elderly tend to ride them a bit). I told this tip to a buddy in high school and he scored a free car off of it.

Also, use a little backstory on the call to get them thinking. For example "Aww I have the wrong number? I'm so sorry! I've been calling ads all day so I can find a car that'll help me get to college and I must have hit the wrong button". If you get a "Oh...actually....", you know you landed one. 

Edit: grammar

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/12v29y/
author:xgunnerx
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1017
numComments:230
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True