title:
LPTs I learned on my way to being 42. 

content:
My father gave me alot of useful information while growing up. But he couldn't possibly give me the heads up on every single thing. Here are some things I learned on my own through the process of making it to the age of 42. 

1. Buy quality shoes. If you take care of them and have 4-5 pair of them, rotating their wear, you never have to buy new shoes again. 

2. Don't use a clothes dryer to dry your stuff. Dryers chew the crap out of clothes. It's convenient, but you'll be replacing those articles of clothing alot sooner. 

3. Get to know as many people as possible in your school or place of employment. Be nice. You never know when you will need a favor from one of these people or they will need one from you. You will be surprised who can come to your rescue. Tell people you really appreciate them when they do something for you. Go out of your way to do so. You will reap untold rewards.

4. Use a time machine and stay 2-4 years behind on everything. You will save lots of money. If something new comes out, like a car, electronic device, camera, etc. Wait two or three years and then buy it. You will have saved a crap ton of money and when it is time for you to upgrade, you will still save a crap ton of money. 

5. Drink water like a fish. You'll feel healthier, won't be as hungry, your skin will be nicer, and about a thousand other things. Drink a glass of water as the second thing you do in the morning when you get out of bed (assuming the first thing is taking a pee). 

6. Don't eat after 6pm. I didn't learn this one until I was in my late 30s. Trust me on this one. 

7. Be observant and ultra nice to people at business establishments, especially ones you frequent. You will get breaks on prices and sometimes even free things. Acting like an ass when things don't go your way in a business establishment, even when you have been treated wrongly, almost never ends well. Still go with being nice (while also remaining firm). 

8. Clean the kitchen as you are cooking. When you are done cooking, you have no kitchen to clean outside of the remaining plates and glasses from eating. 

EDIT: #6 has caused some unintended controversy. I'll now say don't eat 3-4 hours before bedtime. My suggestion was very subjective. And as an addendum, I'll say that I have no medical or scientific reason that this works, but it works for me. I find that I have more energy in the evenings after my food's done digesting. Your results may vary. 





url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/13rbvg/
author:[deleted]
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1342
numComments:339
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True