title:
LPT: if you live alone or otherwise feel unsafe, and you have a car, keep your keys next to your bed. 

content:
If you hear something suspicious, use your panic button on the key fob to set off your car alarm. It might just be enough to scare away anyone that might be lurking about. 

**EDIT**

*tl;dr*

*My opinions and responses to several comments*

ok, so a bunch of people are saying "get a gun".  I'm an American, so that sentiment does make sense to me, but not every region of the world is going to feel that same way. Even here, there are plenty of people that won't/can't buy a firearm, that do have access to a vehicle.

While I think that a gun can provide a good sense of security, who is going to start shooting through doors and walls as soon as they hear something?  The people that say "Me!" are the ones, in my opinion, that shouldn't own a firearm.  You had be very damn sure that you want someone dead before you start pointing guns at them. 

Setting off a car alarm won't accidentally kill your neighbor, your spouse, your pet, or your kids sneaking back into the house.

I also agree that a home alarm system would be a better solution, but those aren't always available. They can be cost prohibitive, logistically problematic (I don't have a land line - things may have changed, but this used to be a requirement), or just plain not allowed. 

The people that say your neighbors are going to hate you if you do this... No they're not. If you're not an idiot, you're not going to be setting off the car alarm every 15 minutes, every night. If you are that kind of person, I hate to break it to you, but your neighbors probably already hate you. 

This LPT was just something that I saw on Facebook, shared through a local police department's page. This is not an an excuse to forgo all common sense, but I really was thinking of the people that may have reasons to be scared. 

Single parents? If you don't have kids, you might not get it, but you never want to leave them parentless. 

Alone and recovering? When do you feel the most helpless, if not when you're sick or hurt?

I'll even through out there, past victims of crimes. If someone has been traumatized by a crime, there's a good chance they'll be afraid of it happening again.

Maybe, just maybe, this would help them sleep through the night. 

Oh yeah, realistically, don't be a hero. Call the cops. Even if you're not sure, they'll come out and check it out. Keep your doors and windows locked at night, and if you can, keep an exterior light on.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/15nab1/
author:deejay_reich
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1202
numComments:699
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True