title:
LPT: Personal fix on nail biting

content:
I bit my nails for my entire life, (I'm 19 now) and I always wanted to stop, but had failed with every single method. I adapted to the horrible tasting stuff, the method where you leave one alone, then another, etc until you've stopped. That never worked for me, because I started doing it subconsciously. It took the proper motivation for me to get my head down and think. For me, as a metalhead, it was the Download festival 2012. Holy fuck, I couldn't miss that. So my parents said they'd buy me a ticket. If I stopped once and for all. Fuck. 
So I came up with the solution. I thought, I can't rely on substances, I can't count on my ability. So the only thing left was to remove the chance. The next day I bought some medical tape and bound up every finger. I didn't just bite the nails, I had removed the skin on every finger up to the mid-joint. (It was vile) I replaced it daily, wore gloves when I could.  Once you remove the ability to bite, you remove the habit. I stopped. But I wasn't convinced, so I began to remove the tape finger by finger over the course of a few weeks. I didn't bite them. For the first time in 19 years I could cut my nails. The Whole process took about a few months, then a few weeks for the unravelling. I couldn't tell if my parents were happy or sad. I'd done something they'd been trying to do for years, and now they had to fork over £200 for a ticket. I was extremely grateful, and download was fucking awesome.
So that's it really. Get yourself some motivation and some tape. 

EDIT: well this has taken off, many thanks for the congrats and the extra knowledge for the biters still fighting the battle. I'm gonna throw in other things that have been known to help and i may or may not have done. 

-Hypnotherapy    I was about to have this done, not sure if it's a definite fix, but may be different for people. A gentleman tried it below and i don't think he had a massive effect. And it's quite expensive, so this would be a last resort. 

-Rubber band technique-   Another gentleman (JC_BOOM_) turned himself into the pavlovs dog of the biting world, he put a band round his wrist and snapped it everytime he was biting. Untill he associated the whole thing with pain, a few relapses,but putting the band on seems to be the trick.

-getting your friends/family/co-workers to kick your ass into submision-  I tired this, telling everybody to punch you if you're biting. It didn't work for me, but worth a shot!

-meth- juhesihcaaa has stated that a woman in a gas station told her she stopped after she took meth. Every      little helps I guess. (I'm not actually condoning drug use)

-Chew something else- keep yourself occupied, toothpick, chewing gum, cats teeth. Whatever takes your fancy. it keeps your mouth occupied. 

TL;DR
Get tape. Tape yourself. Unravel slowly. A few months. Stop. Be a badass. 

thankyou for making my submission on reddit, and my first post on this sub one to remember. 
So long and thanks for the ~~fish~~ tips

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/166loq/
author:Hydrobadjer
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1322
numComments:577
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True