title:
Some quick office pro tips

content:
* When you have chit chtters that eat away at your day, best polite thing to do is walk to their office. Engage as much or as little as you want, naturally they will follow you. Once you get into their office, they will sit down. It's damn instinctual. Then say goodbye and go back to yours, works every time.

* If you have a micromanaging type boss, they tend to enjoy the feeling of control more than the understanding that it undermines morale and can build resentment. Get to know his habits. e.g. If he comes into your office 3 times a day to get an in depth look at what you are doing, plus details, take charge.

    Note what time he does this in a day, enter his office 10 min prior on a regular basis. flood him with the details... Don't BS him, but flood him with details that a supervisor shouldn't need to know. You'll accomplish two thinigs.

    you are signalling you know your job and are in control, you established his office as the place to discuss workload, and yours as a place to get things done. He won't bother you, since it's pointless to get a rehash of what you've already gone into. If you get visits later in the day, just reiterate he knows the plan, and you will see him when complete. Also, above tip helps with this.

* Finally, if you tend to be a burst worker ( lots of work, plenty of brakes, but down time often in between) and have bossess or coworkers who still believe that lookin busy = getting more done, then leave the office. Hell, I've gone so far as to go to starbucks to have some down time during lunch hours. If they want to establish that every second in your chair should be 100% productive, even with you meeting deadlines well, then being absent is the only way to allieviate that. If you have nowhere to go, even a couple minutes in the bathroom with your cell phone if you have to. It gets your mind out of that mindset, will probably increase productivity, and keep everything on the up and up. Last thing you need is the fight where you have to show you are getting results from a position of defending yourself.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/16k3sl/
author:Conan_the_barbarian
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:2504
numComments:521
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True