title:
You Should Know how to successfully interview/apply for a job.

content:
I work at a restaurant and I see people come in constantly looking for work, and even if we are hiring we will say we're not based on your appearance and overall swagger.


Swagger- adj. The quality of walking or behaving in a very confident manner.


You should dress the part:


Wear nice dress shoes. Not toms, or flip flops, or boat shoes. Dress shoes.


Iron your pants, wear slacks or khakis. No jeans, NO BASKETBALL SHORTS for Gotham's sake, and no cargo shorts, just no shorts.


If you have piercings, or tattoos, cover them. If you have gauges, take them out for the application/interview. If you're a lady you can wear ear-rings. I have sleeves, but when I interview I keep them covered. Most of my jobs do not even know about my tattoos even when I am working, but if you feel comfortable you could ask your boss about their policy at the end of the interview once he/she has hired you.


Bring a pen. Bring a pen. Bring a pen.


Make sure youre well manicured, style your hair, wash your face, brush your teeth, clean/trim your fingernails.


Smile.


Eye contact when talking.


Firm handshake.


Clean, ironed clothing. 


Show confidence.


During the conversation, start off by asking the future employer how they're doing, what their day has been up to, something not work-related to show that you care and are an easy person to talk to.


Try not to trash talk your old job, it's basically like you're on a date.


When on a date, you don't trash talk your ex boyfriend/girlfriend the whole time. You can talk about what you want in a boyfriend/girlfriend, but don't trash talk.


Instead of saying things like,


My boss was a dick. He did x y and z.


Say, I am really looking for a position with encouraging management that can help me grow in a positive direction.


Instead of saying that your coworkers were super negative and lazy...


I'm hoping for a new opportunity to inspire my coworkers to work together as a team in a fun, positive, and encouraging environment.


Don't cuss.


Be honest where you are at. Don't present yourself as someone you are not. 


I would recommend not rehearsing before hand, just be honest and who you are going to be to customers/coworkers and let them see who you really are.


Tell your future employer something your passionate about, whether it be volunteering at x, or how you enjoyed spending the summer in y.


I just see a lot of people come in and have no idea what they're doing, and often we just tell people we aren't hiring because of it. 


And anywhere you go to ask for an application, ASK TO SPEAK TO THE MANAGER AFTER and introduce yourself, hi my name is I_AM_ENCOURAGER, and I'm just letting you see my face, know who I am, and that I'll be putting in my application later today.


Good luck.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/16trcv/
author:I_AM_ENCOURAGER
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:1318
numComments:331
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True