title:
LPT: Fast food alternative for broke college students. 30 bucks a week for excellent, healthy food. 

content:
I've been seeing a lot of posts recently about broke college students and their fast food habits. I'm here to offer a dissenting opinion. Fast food is bad for you, and while easy, eats away at your wallet when you could be having better and more food for less money. 

The trouble of course, comes from budgeting. I spend 60 bucks a week at my local WinCo (most of the time, less) and buy produce. If you know how to use the produce, you can stretch it into far more meals than you could just going to McDonalds and dropping 3.50 on a one-serving nugget salad. You have to know where to shop for this to work. Albertsons/Vons/Whole Foods? Little too pricey. Ralphs/Fred Meyer? Closer to the target. What you're looking for is bottom of the food chain bulk/wholesale food, like WinCo/Smart And Final/ CostCo/BigLots, etc. 

Now, it doesn't take much to cook at home. All you really need is a frying pan, a stock pot, and a knife. You can even get away with just a microwave and a knife, but you have to be more creative about it. Now, eating well is super super easy, but nobody knows how to do it because nobody takes the time to learn. There are TONS of youtube channels out there that teach you how to cook, all you have to do is search for them. If you have a TV, watch the Food Network for a few days and you'll start picking things up. 

Anyway, here's how my budget works. Half of my weekly budget is spent on produce, and honestly, I could get by on just that. 30 bucks of produce a week and ANYONE would be fine. You just have to know what to buy. First of all, never buy anything that's out of season if you can avoid it. Don't buy avocados unless you're in California (and even then, prices go way up out of season) or they're in season. If you buy avocados out of season, the quality will be lower and you'll be paying a substantial markup. ~~Buy those packages of romaine hearts (3.25) (3 per bag), a box of garlic croutons (1.50) and a container of caesar dressing (2.50). 3 (or more if you don't have a huge appetite) big, healthy meals for 7.25.~~ Buy a box of arugula or spinach, and just add a simple vinaigrette and maybe a sliced hard boiled egg. Incredibly simple, and even cheaper than the original caesar salad example which everyone hated.  You can stretch your money even further if you have a pressure cooker or crock pot. 6 dollars of vegetables (onion, carrot, celery, salt/pepper) and 4 dollars of meat (stew beef), throw into a crock pot for 7 hours and you'll have yourself an incredible stew that'll last you for at least 5 meals. 

I'm a broke college student myself, and I can make it work on 30 bucks a week. If I can do it, you can as well, all it takes is some prep time and a little bit of motivation to learn how to cook basics. Steaming, boiling, frying and chopping. If you can do those things, you can eat really well for really cheap. Of course, I would be happy to answer any questions about how to budget and prepare food, because I had to learn all this by myself and want to share food with everyone. 

By request, edit 8: **TL;DR-- if you go to Winco or other bulk wholesaler, you can buy pretty much everything on the cheap, and if you go to YouTube, you can learn how to cook it all. Finally, if you go to Amazon, you can buy a knife, a frying pan, and a stock pot and start eating healthier, more filling, and cheaper food.**

~~Edit: I don't know why something like this would get downvoted. It's bizarre to me that there are people that are so fast-food centric that they'd be aversive to better health and saving money and gaining a practical life skill. I'm not even upset, it's just wildly confusing.~~ Nothing here but us chickens, boss. 

Edit 2: Eggs are cheap. If you know how to fry an egg, you will never go hungry. Buy eggs. 

Edit 3: Avocado clarification: Avoid buying avocados when they're off-season. Any way you slice it, you're paying an obscene amount more than you should for them at any point that isn't the summer. As for the Californians part, that's just a bonus. If you live in California, you're going to pay less for avocados. Even less if it's during the summer. The general point to this edit is to pay attention to seasonal/regional things. If you can get them from nearby and they're in season, you'll pay a TON less. Avoid out of season produce. 

Edit 4: As flohammed_albroseph pointed out, Pasta was missing from this list. Pasta is great because you can dress it a thousand and one ways, and have a different meal every time. Plus, if you buy in bulk, you can get pasta on the cheap. It lasts forever, too. 

Edit 5: As is being pointed out in the comments, the Caesar salad example was a poor choice. While it still is healthier than anything you would find in a fast food joint, it's still unhealthy in relative terms. For broke college students who are struggling to just get chemical energy in an easy and (still, comparatively) healthier way, a caesar isn't a bad choice-- however, it's worth mentioning that there are easier and healthier salads out there which can't be ignored. When in doubt, grilled (or baked, or pan fried, or anything as long as it's cooked) chicken, sliced hard boiled egg, romaine lettuce, and fat free ranch. 

Edit 6: For those just showing up to the party, I strongly recommend reading the comments. Lot of people suggesting healthy, cost-effective meals down there, as well as having high quality discussion in general. 

Edit 7: Let's talk meat. Now, a lot of people assume that meat is expensive. To some degree, that's correct-- but really only regarding quality cuts of beef. Here's the thing, if you don't buy it prepackaged in the meat aisle at your favorite market, you can save some money by visiting a butcher. If you don't have a butcher in your town, the deli counter in a market can still save you some money. Boneless chicken breasts are actually the best choice here. They're the most versatile of any meat when trying to eat healthy and cheap. Sausage (bratwurst and such) is a close second, and the stuff is pretty filling. Cuts of fish like Mahi Mahi and Salmon can fluctuate wildly, so keep your eye on the prices as you shop. If you come in next time and see that it's a buck less per pound, it's time to stock up. 

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/19en8g/
author:Unwright
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1798
numComments:483
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True