title:
LPT: Listen to an audio book, only when working out. So when you want to hear more, you want to work out more.

content:
EDIT:

Wow, didn’t expect this sort of response when going to bed last night and especially didn’t expect the backlash I got for this. I really feel the need to address this instead of just ignoring it and reason what made me write this tip. First of all, it’s called life pro TIPS, so it’s not something that you have to do, and if this doesn’t work for you, I don’t see why you should. The thing is that on this subreddit, I’ve seen posts before that I knew right away that it wouldn’t work for me, so I just ignored it. I thought that was the thing to do. Instead people started to rage about this and when I woke up this morning I wondered why I had 200+ comments where half said thanks and half of you hated it. 

I think the first misconception came when I had the word work out in the title. This is my first sign of “regret” that I probably should have used a different wording. In my native language, the word for work out is the same for all work outs, and that’s what I thought would be the same thing here, and it probably still is. But people assumed directly that work out is lifting weights and pumping on the gym. And you are probably right when you say that this doesn’t work while you are on a gym and lifting weights, but you also need to understand how many different kinds of workouts there is and my “go to” training is cardio. I have started a habit to run long and I’m now in a place that I have to run every day. I’m also a guy who over thinks EVERYTHING so if I  would listen to music, I would just think of the number of songs I’ve heard and with simple math trying to figure out my time, which seriously doesn’t work for me. I started to listen to audio books and only when running, and find myself lost in my audio book and my running and I could run for 45 min to an hour without thinking. So as I said in the beginning, this is a tip for people who maybe have problem going back to working out (which is a really important thing to do). 

I’ve also read some people saying things like “why don’t you just stop being a fat fuck and the motivation would be to not be a fat fuck” or something like that. While I first thought it was just a random troll, I still felt a reason to address this as well. First of all, I’m not a “fat fuck”. The thing with motivation is that it works different with different people. A few years ago I worked out almost two times a day in a sport team before my “posterior cruciate ligament” (I googled translated that) snapped and I had to stop with all exercising for two years. During that time I also had a death to a really close friend and I started to get depressed. While I really felt the need to just “fuck it all”, this tip helped me not to just lie down and feel sorry for myself and instead start running again. Motivation comes in all forms and sizes, and it’s not just for getting up from your couch and stop eating McDonalds or something.

If this is something that you tried now and it works for you, then it would be awesome. But if it’s not something you think would work, then that’s also fine. I just didn’t expect rage for a LPT that might just help someone to start exercising again. I’m also sorry for a long post which probably had a lot of grammatical errors and spelling was probably off as fuck, but as I said; English is not my native language so please don’t try to win any arguments by correcting my spelling.


url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/1bdu6w/
author:Lindkvist15
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:2165
numComments:310
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True