title:
LPT: Parents, Babysitter, Daycare worker? Save your Sanity. Instead of always telling your child (especially toddlers) what to do, give them two choices that provide the same outcome.

content:
We all know kids, especially toddlers, when told what to do often will do the exact opposite or start having a tantrum.  Parents (or anyone who watches a toddler) understand that when you ask a toddler to do the simplest task it can become a major ordeal.  So instead of telling them what to do, give them two options instead.

Children love knowing they have some control over what they are doing. It gives them a chance to use their thinking and reasoning skills in a positive way.  So instead of saying, "Please put on your pajamas and get ready for bed."  You could try, "Which pajamas would you like to wear to bed tonight, your nightgown or your Dora jammies?"

This concept can be used for almost anything.  I started using this approach and it truly was life changing.  It has become second nature and my daughter loves knowing that she is making decisions instead of simply being told what to do.

Source: Just a parent using trial and error. Hopefully less error. 

Edit #1:  Yes, you can do this with adults also.  Thanks for pointing this out.  I use it on my friends and family all of the time. It's great when trying to get a group to decide on a restaurant to eat at. 

Edit #2:  Not all parenting techniques work 100% of the time. What works for one family may not work for another.  There are plenty of comments where people have had success and failures with this method.  If you are a parent or child care giver you learn through trial and error. Good luck to you all. 

Thanks reddit, this is a great discussion and that includes the good and the bad.  I'll do my best to respond to those who asked me direct questions.  Nice to make the front page and share LPT's with people.  

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/1c5cex/
author:VersatilityMaster
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:3301
numComments:880
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True