title:
LPT: Avoid driving over plastic grocery bags when its safe to do so. I am a professional mechanic and have seen first hand all the damage these bags can do. (Details inside).

content:
First off let me say, be safe out there! Avoid swerving dangerously at the sight of a bag. Check your mirrors and carefully change lanes to go around the bag. If you run one over watch your rear view mirror to see if the bag passed under your car and is still in the roadway. If not and its safe to do so, pull over and look under your car in a parking lot. 

As stated I am a professional mechanic and I see at least once a week a car come in with damage caused by a plastic grocery bag. Most people are completely unaware they hit the bag or that it was causing problems. 

Here is a list of problems plastic bags can cause. 


* Getting sucked into the drive belts and wrapping themselves around alternators, AC compressors, pulleys, etc. When they do this it can cause anything they are wrapped around to fail, leading to expensive repairs, and even a risk of fire. 


* Getting wrapped around half axles and destroying the axle boot and leading to axle failure. This is really common, the bag gets sucked up into the spinning axle and then wraps itself tightly around the rubber CV joint boot, and ends up tearing the boot allowing all the axle grease to escape and destroying the CV joint/axle. 


* Getting stuck to the exhaust system components and melting, causing burning smells inside the vehicle and sometimes fires. This is another really common problem. I have even seen a bag become stuck to the exhaust, catch fire, and then burn up the wiring on the O2 sensor. That resulted in a check engine light, and a costly repair for the vehicle owner. 


* Getting sucked into the torque converter, clutch area. This is pretty uncommon, but I have seen at least one example of this. 


This is just a quick short list. There are many more issues these bags can cause. And often its not cheap to repair and can lead to dangerous situations for the vehicle owners. 


So next time you are driving and see a bag floating across the roadway, try and avoid it. 



url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/1dz4el/
author:Ihaveastupidcat
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1246
numComments:99
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True