title:
LPT: If you're job searching, and you come across a suspiciously great looking entry level job in the fields of "Direct Marketing" or "Outsourced Marketing", it's a scam.

content:
I got shafted by this once, and then became fascinated with how these companies work, so here's the deal. 

You see a lot of ads like this on craigslist, promising 50k salaries, entry level training, no experience required, for something called "Outsourced Marketing" or "Direct Marketing." Links like these tend to proliferate on craigslist. When I went to write this post, I figured I would have to do some searching to find them. Turns out, there were multiple ones posted in the last week. 

http://newjersey.craigslist.org/mar/3788629725.html
http://newjersey.craigslist.org/mar/3821805722.html
http://newjersey.craigslist.org/mar/3787127761.html
http://newyork.craigslist.org/que/fbh/3846462232.html

Here's a paragraph about what one of these companies says they do:

"At LIFE Long Island, our marketing services provide our various clients with the ability to reach out to thousands of potential customers and consumers on a daily basis. In a marketplace full of generic advertising and increased competition, LIFE Long Island is able to interact and build relationships with the people that matter when our competitors flyers and direct mail is sitting in the trash.

LIFE Long Island has had incredible success with its current and past clients employing a business to business marketing plan in many industries including telecommunications, office supplies, retail solutions, and merchant processing. Our account managers are professional, knowledgeable, and adaptable to the changing needs of today's small and medium sized businesses. We utilize a strong marketing system while integrating a personable approach to make sure to satisfy the needs of the business owner as well as the client we are representing."

You may have noticed that a lot of proffesional sounding buzzwords later, you still don't actually have a clear picture of what they do? Because they're intentionally trying to hide what they actually do. 

Door to door sales. 

The company I got an interview with, Life Long Island in Mineola, NY, does door to door office supplies sales. They order supplies cheaply off amazon, and then send their door to door salesmen to resell them to offices, advertising it more cheaply than if they ordered from Staples or Office Maxx. 

These salesmen get paid on commision, pay for their own gas and tolls, and will be expected to go on an all day, unpaid "Second Interview" that's basically a day's work for no money. Secondly, many of these companies don't actually pay commission to their employees, but screw them out of it. Life Long Island, apparently, paid someone who posted on Ripoff Report 130 a week, even after he made quite a bit in commision. 

Because of these practices, there's an incredibly high rate of turnover. Many employees leave, which is why their HR representatives are so aggressive during interviews. When you go on an interview, no matter what, you will be a strong candidate. For your second interview, you're told to wear comfortable shoes. Odd? Because you'll have to walk around all day, following door to door salesmen. 

Now, full disclosure, I haven't worked at one of these companies. I got an interview at one, was informed what they really do, and then promptly backed out. The next week, a friend of mine got an interview at a different "Direct Marketing" company with a suspicious website, and we proceeded to maybe read every single piece of info in existence on this. 

Many of them are pyramid scheme type places that are affiliated with Cydcor. They tend to train people how to set up their own "Marketing" companies that do the same thing. But there's a massive amount of turnover due to the shitty practices, and multiple companies, such as Limitless Marketing and Life Long Island, have had to change their names when they get in trouble with the state. 

I see posts on Craigslist ALL THE TIME for companies like these, so I figured I'd kick it over to you guys. If anyone has a good experience at a "Direct Marketing" or "Outsourced Marketing" company like this (not an actual, legitimate marketing company), then please, correct me, because every single thing I've read about this has been awful. 

TLDR: Entry Level "Direct Marketing" and "Outsourced Marketing" is a scam. It's door to door sales.

Sources: 

I have more links saved on my other computer, I'll post them when I get back.
"http://entryleveljobscamsblog.blogspot.com/"
"http://www.ripoffreport.com/r/cydcor-sas-marketing-group/emeryville-california-94608/sas-marketing-group-cydcor-ripoff-know-what-you-are-getting-into-beware-do-your-resea-78295"
http://jobsearch.about.com/od/entryleveljobs/a/entrylevelscam.htm

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/1fqj4y/
author:OceansOnPluto
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:2434
numComments:774
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True