title:
LPT: How to interview well.

content:
I work in technology and have been part of the interview process at my last few jobs. I also recently switched jobs and did a substantial amount of interviewing. I received numerous offers before I accepted my current position. 

Every now and then I see some advice about interviewing on this sub that I find questionable, so I decided to share what I consider to be my interview bag of tricks.


* Look put together. 

Ask your recruiter/HR contact what the dress code is during the phone screen or in-person interview scheduling process. If he or she says business casual, wear nicely ironed slacks, an ironed dress shirt, and dress shoes. Dress code is highly debate and some interviewees say "If I can't wear a t-shirt to the interview, I won't be a cultural fit!" - great, this tip is how to get a job, not how to avoid getting one. If you must look "casual" without asking about the dress code, at least wear a polo.

Being put together is more than dress code, though. Go to Target and get a $10 faux leather folio and ditch the 5 star notebook look. Get a pen that looks nicer than a $.25 bic. Keep extra copies of your resume in the folio along with paper to jot down notes during the interview.

* Be memorable

This means that they should think you're a good dude or dudette from the beginning. As soon as anyone walks into the interview room, immediately stand up and offer a hand shake and introduce yourself. Don't wait for them to introduce. You're the one trying to look personable and make a good impression.

This also means that you should do things like asking "What would my typical day/week look like in this position?" or "How many members would be on my team and can I meet any of them?" This gives you a glimpse of the actual job itself, while making them think about situations where you're in the job. This is good.

* Don't be bashful.

Interviews are not a time to be humble. You need to outperform every single other person that's interviewing. If someone asks, "have you worked with X" and you haven't, the correct answer isn't "No, I haven't," it is "I've worked with Y extensively and I've been dying to get my hands on X. I know that a lot of skills overlap between the two, but I haven't had a chance to use X yet. I've kept up on it and my strong background in Y makes me confident I'd pick up on X quickly."

* Do some research about the company beforehand.

Walking in knowing that they just landed a huge customer or moved to a new office building gives you a talking point if there is any downtime in the interview, or gives you questions to ask at the end of the interview. It makes you look interested and prepared. It's also OK to look people up on LinkedIn, if you know who will be interviewing you.

* Always have questions.

No job is ever how it's presented during the interview. You need to make sure that it's a good fit for you. Yes, the economy sucks, but if you're lucky enough to be in a position where you don't *need* the first offer that comes across the table, then you should be vetting them as much as they are vetting you. Things like "On the way out, could you show my where my work area would be?" or "Can I meet any members of the team?" or even "How long have the most senior and most junior members of my team been here?" will all give insight into the conditions/culture. You want to avoid high turnover, but you also want to avoid lifers and a team of geriatrics if you're a younger up-and-comer.


I hope this helps, reddit. That whole "ask what concerns them about you" LPT from last week really grinded my gears and I felt like I needed to counterbalance it with some actual useful information.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/1gsdp7/
author:mdmarra
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:2255
numComments:310
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True