title:
LPT: some tips on how to start conversations or keep them going

content:
I have a few tricks to get conversations going and keeping them from dying:

1. Shut up and listen. Sometimes people will start talking and something will come up that is a common interest. Even if someone just mentions for example the word car, there's nothing stopping you from talking about cars. Pick up on those and reciprocate. Takes some practice but you'll start to build in triggers in your mind and before you know it, you'll be leading the conversation.

2. Express an interesting thought from a movie, song, book, etc... Doesn't have to be on-topic, if the conversation is dying, anything goes! Last time I did that, I was talking about the movie Man of Steel and how the people of Krypton reproduced. Turned out the guy I was talking to teaches religion and obviously that was quite a conversation sparker.

3. If you frequently don't know what to say to people at, for example, a party: write down your own interests on a list beforehand. Store it on your phone or something. If the conversation dies, go through your list, pick an item and start talking about it. So what if it's a bit awkward that a conversation just started and you're already looking at your phone, they'll forget about that in 5 seconds as soon as the conversation is back up and running again. This one has saved me many times!

4. Little bit the same as 3, read up on current events before going to parties. If you really want to be prepared, augment your list from nr. 3 with recent news.

5. Don't start or continue conversations with negative thoughts. When someone tells you he/she likes film photography, don't complain that the colors of old photos suck. Instead, ask them what they find so interesting about it, for example "What drew you to film photography?". Remember: what the heart is filled with, the mouth is full of. A simple follow-up question can release a torrent of information which you can use in applying the other tips.

6. Share your experience on something you just did or are about to do. I told someone I was going to music school, turns out he does too and gave me a lot of helpful information.
7. Remember what people are or were talking about so you can always go back to that topic. Yes, that means paying attention!

8. Maybe as a reminder to myself, alcohol may be a social lubricant but it also makes you forget a lot of stuff! What are you going to do when that cute guy/girl comes over and asks if watch a lot of TV and you can't even remember what shows you watch? It happened to me and I'll be damned if I ever let something like that happen again.


url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/1hdap3/
author:DopplerEffect1
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1165
numComments:94
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True