title:
LPT: Easily save dying bees with sugar water.

content:
As you all know, honey bees are dying worldwide by the millions. As you also know, bees are a *very*, *very* important part of the ecosystem. I assume that most of you don't use bee-killing chemicals on your fields or have a garden, so I have a simple tip on how to save dying bees, one at a time, even for people living in cities.

If you spot a dying bee (or bumble bee), don't throw it outside or kill it. You can save that little fucker! It's easy and often takes only a couple of minutes. Step by step:

* don't be afraid of bees - just stay calm, they won't hurt or attack you
* bring it into a dry place (just put in on a table or whatever)
* take a cup and mix sugar (*not* artificial or diet sweetener or other crap, just normal or organic sugar) with water - something like a 2:1 or 3:1 ratio, small quantities
* take a spoon and make the sugar ''dissolve'', the end result should be thicker than water and a little bit less consistent than syrup (it's not *that* important)
* put a spoon of your sugar water on a dish and place the bee (use a paper to scoop it up) right next to it (*not* into it)
* observe the bee drink it and make sure that it doesn't end stuck in it (again, gently use a paper if it's stuck and try to help it out)
* open a window and turn off bright lights

And then wait. In my experience, even half dead bees will find enough force to drink/eat some. After usually anything between 1 and 5min, the bee will stop drinking, wait a moment and suddenly start flying again. If your window is open, odds are high that it will find it and directly fly out.

Younger I lived in the countryside and had to deal with plenty of bees. I never really thought about helping the dying ones, because they usually didn't die due to a lack of energy (flowers everywhere). Now, in the city, every other day I will find such a dying bee and I found out that this method works perfectly.

There's no point in killing animals, specially such useful ones like bees. Side effect, it's interesting to observe them drink and it's always a small victory when they fly away like nothing ever happened. Every bee I've helped with sugar water flew away in the following minutes.

Edit: Also, in case someone doubted, bees are not pets. As soon as they're healthy again, give them the opportunity to fly back home.

Edit2: Always use sugar if available. If you don't have any left, try honey. 

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/1j9pzu/
author:BigBoobieBitches
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1084
numComments:172
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True