title:
LPT: My Tips for success in taking college classes

content:
TL:DR - 1. Attend class, 2. Take notes, 3. Use other resources, 4. Study with others, 5. Keep a date book, 6. Take the weekends off 

1. Consider attendance at every class to be mandatory. Three reasons why this is important:
     - You will have to read a chapter four or five times to make up for listening to and taking notes during a lecture on that same chapter/topic. Hearing, writing and reading is always better than just reading. Multisensory experience is how the human brain learns best.
     - The topics emphasized in class lectures tend to be test questions. When you only read the book you have no idea which topics the professor thinks are more important.
     - Eight weeks into the semester, the professor may not know your name, but he will recognize you. This is helpful if you have to pay him a visit and plead for a better grade, a second chance, leniency, or some other favor.

2. Take notes in class. Written notes... pencil... on paper. Again, you are engaging more senses by reading and writing along with hearing. Re-WRITE your notes later that day. Don't just reread them. Rewriting helps your brain to process the new information for more longer-term recall.

3. Don't consider the course textbook your only reference. If you are struggling with college Algebra, buy a High School Algebra textbook or two and use it to supplement your learning. Watch videos of another teacher's or professor's lecture on the topic. You have much of mankind's collective knowledge of any subject at your fingertips on your phone, tablet or laptop. Use it all to your advantage.

4. Form weekly Study Groups and review the week's lectures and compare your notes. After Study Group, go get some beer. Worst case: you make new friends, best case: you learn something important that you missed or misunderstood. 
Get e-mail addresses and cell numbers so you can get copies of notes or recorded lectures for that day you were dog-sick.
     - Side benefit: ask smart people to join your group, they can help you now and also in the future. Ask attractive people to join your group, you might find a boy/girlfriend. Ask ugly people to join your group, because everyone has something to offer.

5. The weekend starts on Friday afternoon, not Thursday. Work on Thursday night and during the day Friday and you won't feel unprepared and guilty on Monday.

6. The weekend ends on Sunday afternoon. You should be spending Sunday evening studying and preparing for the upcoming week.

7. If you think that English Lit is a waste of time for an Engineering major or that Calculus is worthless to Sociologist then you are missing the bigger picture. College is not a vocational education. If you still don't like it, consider welding school or diesel mechanics... those guys make a lot of money. You are in college to get an education, not a job.

8. Keep a date book, write down the deadlines, test dates and other important stuff from the syllabus. Yes, an actual paper book. It is easier to flip pages back and forth and see what's coming up. Write down reminders one week before tests and when papers are due. Put all this in your iCal or Google Calendar too in case you lose your date book.

9. Get enough sleep and stick to a decent diet. It affects your capacity to learn in so many important ways.

10. Be humble. You have to allow yourself to be teachable. If you think you already know it all, save the money and leave college now. You would be incorrect though, because you really don't know anything about anything.


url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/1khv7c/
author:PurveyorOfPortency
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1903
numComments:458
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True