title:
LPT: Stuck in the Atlanta airport overnight? Make your stay more comfortable!

content:
Missed your flight? No hotels available or you can't afford one? 

For starters, don't go outside the secure area unless you absolutely have to.  Almost nothing is worth going through the bullshit of dealing with the TSA.

Now, for maximum overnight comfort get your butt over to "A" concourse.  When everything else closes, here is where you will find a 24 hour McDonald's so that you can get a coffee or feed the kids.  

Next, get to the main Delta counter across from gate 18 and look for a passenger overnight convenience kit.  Ask for one if you have to.  Free and totally worth it.  Keep your eyes open for a red blanket or two also.  You don't need it now but you will at 4am when it's gotten cold in the terminal and your freezing.

Ok, so now you know where food is, you have a grab bag of goodies and a blanket to stay warm, now you need the most comfortable place to rest and access to the internet.  

Both of these can be found upstairs in the waiting area for PF Changs.  Here you can hop on the wifi for free and they have BY FAR the most comfortable benches in the airport to get some sleep!  As an added bonus it is also one of the quietest spots on the concourse.

Well, there you go.  It sucks spending the night in an airport but I hope this makes your unexpected stay in ATL a little more tolerable.  More Atlanta airport tips to follow.

Edit1:  PF Changs is located in the center of concourse "A" up the escalator.

Edit2:  I work for a major airline at the Atlanta airport and know it inside and out.

Edit3:  The reason these benches are the most comfortable is because they are fully padded and perfectly flat versus the blue benches in the concourse that have the gaps between the cushions that kill your back!

Edit4:  People keep mentioning joining the Delta Sky Club, that's great and all for the day/afternoon right up until they close for the evening.  These are tips for beyond closing time or if you can't afford/don't want to spend the money.  



url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/1n044h/
author:[deleted]
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:2370
numComments:258
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True