title:
LPT: For Thanksgiving

content:
Call all of your friends and make sure they a place and people to celebrate with. I just called through all my friends making sure. I now have 2 extra people who are eating with me. Most people won't do the opposite and invite themselves. Work, lack of money to travel, and hating family are all common reasons people are alone on Thanks Giving. Texts and facebook post probably won't work as people don't like to admit being alone. Also now I feel all warm and speical inside for helping out a couple of friends. I'm like the mother Teresa of turkey day (but more humble). Also family member are much less likely to act crazy with strangers around. 

When it comes to cooking. Most people know what they are going to make. Do prep work today. Boiled potatoes take forever. There isn't much difference between freshly boiled and yesterday boiled potatoes. Prep onions and and other vegetables you're cooking. This will make you spend less time in the kitchen and have less busy work. Also a lot less clean up after ingesting enough tryptophan and alcohol to put down Andrea the Giant.

Finally if you are planning on drinking either have a designated driver or  stay the night. If you are uncomfortable sleeping in not your bed, just drink more it solves that problem. There are plenty of Cops out the night of Holidays giving out DUI's. I know this one seems obvious but you never really know your BAC (Blood alcohol content) until you are blowing in a Breathalyzer in front of your family. The old Im good to drive defense doesn't hold up in court. The difference between .07 and .08 can't be felt. Until you have very cold hand cuffs on your wrists and you can't buy holidays gifts because you got a DUI on Thanks Giving. Oh and plus the whole "You could murder someone." aspect.


Oh spelling and grammar might be horrible I'm cooking 10 lbs of potatoes and chopping up around 1 million onions right now.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/1rlpft/
author:atomicllama1
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1642
numComments:188
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True