title:
LPT: How to leave your dorm/apartment undamaged when you move out.

content:
This sub has been a bit boring lately, so I thought I'd spice it up a little.

Everyone has a picture up or has had a drunken party that has damaged the walls of your abode. If you want to get out of paying for the damage, fix it before you leave.

If you have relatively light colored walls that have 1 or 2 thumbtack holes in them, be old school. Take a bit of toothpaste and fill the holes. Wipe off the excess. You're done.

If you have small dents or holes, get a small can of spackle and fix them. It's only a couple of bucks at the hardware store. You're going to need some paint, too. Since you've already damaged the walls, what the heck, you might as well do a bit more. Go somewhere inconspicuous and cut out a small bit of paint. If you have concrete walls, you're screwed but if you have sheetrock, it has a paper coating your can use a razor and peel back. Have the color matched and get a quart of paint. Don't get a sample. That'll have the wrong finish. Get a quart. Besides, you want to be able to feather out the paint a bit to blend it. Have the guy at the store pick your finish. You'll probably have satin or eggshell.

If you have a bigger hole, such as when you ducked the punch, you can get a small patch kit at the hardware store. It has a bit of mesh to go over the hole and some taping compound to fill in the hole. If you don't have the mesh, take a piece of cardboard that's bigger than the hole and poke a hole in the middle of it. Put a string into the hole and knot it. Put the cardboard into the hole in the wall, position it flat against the backside of the wall and hold it in place with the string. Put some taping compound on the edges of the cardboard to hold it into place as it dries. Then add more taking compound in thin coats to build up enough to fill the hold. Feather out the edges and paint.

On any taping compound, you need some sandpaper to feather out the edges. You want it to be perfectly smooth before you paint it.

I'm not advocating huge repair projects. But doing a few minor fixes might save you some money on move-out day. If you don't understand my directions, there's always youtube.

Good luck. Now go study.


url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/1s1hv8/
author:Upstate1
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1713
numComments:397
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True