title:
LPT: If you just got dumped/divorced/cheated on and are suddenly single, change your ringtone and text alert on your phone, you'll bounce back quicker.

content:
Humans (like other animals) are extremely adept at associating sights, sounds, and smells with the feelings they evoke, for good or bad. It's been thoroughly studied. The sound of your loved one wanting to reach you may have been a signal preceding some of the best feelings in your life, and now that same tune gives you a sinking feeling in your stomach; so change that tune, get something entirely different, a clean slate. It's no cure of all the blues but it's at least one pain you can do without.

This can make a big difference, as people can have reactions ranging from light nervous breakdowns to near-PTSD when involuntarily remembering one's recently lost love without any warning. So be kind to yourself.

Edit: on a related note, this is also a great time to change after-shave/perfume, maybe even washing detergent, so your bed and clothes smell different. Both these things are good to change now and then anyway.

Edit 2: several people have remarked, both jokingly or chidingly, that changing your ringtone is a slippery slope to escape behavior and avoiding confronting your emotional problems. This is not so, here is why: dealing with your ingrained, learned behavior triggers (ringtones, juice brand, TV shows you followed) left from your former SO is a proactive measure, not a form of escapism or self-delusion. It is all about taking charge, not fleeing. As long as you are doing things in a calculated fashion, with mindfulness, you aren't cheating yourself, and you have a chance to more quickly beat the hold the memories of this other person has over you.

Real escapism would be avoiding parties and birthdays where there would be one or two people who reminded you of your former partner. Anything limiting your life (holing yourself up in your home for months) or taking up a disproportionate part of your waking hours (MMO:s, bingeing on TV shows/books/movies) would technically be escapism, but if it's the only thing that works for now, and it's done in relative moderation (not for a year straight) then maybe that's a phase you need, but the danger line would be when you consistently forsake contact with friends and family in favor of your new "hobby"; in this state, more than ever, you need people as silent support and sounding boards *(although I sympathize if most of your friends and family are that kind of "bad listener" who talks your ear off about how you must turn your life around and pesters you with judgement and opinion you didn't ask for; good friends are a shoulder and an ear, non-judging. That said, they should have a right to call you out on destructive behavior).

Edit 3: Someone mentioned literally and permanently skipping town after a breakup; unless you are already used to traveling for jobhunting or education, I really would not recommend pulling up your proverbial tent pins and moving town when you are currently highly emotionally compromised from a gnarly breakup, unless you really have been put in an untenable position and leaving is the only course of action, but that would take a lot of factors.

Otherwise, skipping town on a whim could lead to isolation instead of healthy exposure. What you need is the opposite; a foundation, stability, dependability, stimulation, not being alone with your sad feelings and circular patterns of thought; some nice slaps across the cheeks together with friends and people you trust. Think babysteps.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/1yp1v3/
author:Arknell
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:2807
numComments:425
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True