title:
LPT; when picking a hotel for your wedding,stay there under a different name the night before you meet the event co-ordinator.

content:
My sister did this recently to help her pick her wedding venues; she booked the meeting with the event co-ordinator under her name and a room under her fiancee's for the previous night, and they got a much more realistic version of the hotel's standards. 

The hotel they had originally loved had shown them a gorgeous room and been super attentive to them during the wedding-planning meeting, but had practically ignored four calls about a broken TV and a non-flushing toilet when they stayed in the much uglier standard room the night before. They also had no hot water the next morning. This way she was able to see how her wedding guests would really be treated and she was able to make a more informed choice.

EDIT Okay guys, because this seems to be causing such confusion I would like to clarify; we live in Ireland, where motels do not exist. Also, people are not checked for ID on check-in, just for a payment method (ie one credit card per couple). My sister is having a standard Irish wedding of a Catholic church ceremony and hotel reception. She narrowed down her selections to 2 hotels within her budget that she loved, and was happy to book a room (about 70 euro each hotel per night) to make sure the thousands she spent later were being spent on quality service. The hotels were cheap enough to stay in because she was being money-concious and had not chosen expensive ones. This was also partly why she chose to test them out in advance. Also, we have a big family with lots of people coming from several hours away, and most of them will probably stay in the same hotel because it's handy. She isn't paying for them to stay, but she wanted to know if they chose to they would have an enjoyable experience. To anyone saying Ireland is small enough to drive across, I'm not sure why anyone would advocate anyone driving across dark country roads at 3am for four hours, after being up all day and having presumably driven there that morning. And most people at Irish weddings will be drinking. That's dangerous. Hotels are not so expensive that it is worth risking people's lives. We don't have rest stops here. Sleep in the car if you have to, *please do not drive home in that state*.

Also, for anyone saying she should use it as a deposit for a house, I would like to point out that she has always been frugal and it has paid off. She actually owns a house outright. 

I was just trying to say that anyone who wants a traditional wedding and is going to pay a few thousand for it should consider investing an extra couple of hundred to make sure they are getting value for money. Personally, my fiancee and I are getting married in his parents' back garden, but I know not everyone wants that:)

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/1zddz3/
author:Jorcky
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:2209
numComments:506
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True