title:
[LPTR] How to stop a very frustrating sleeping habit

content:
So, when I was a baby my parents had me in a crib that rocked. My parents recall countless stories of me rocking my crib so hard that I wore holes in the carpet down to the wood floors.  
  
When I was a kid, for years I HAD to rock back and forth while in bed just to be able to go to sleep. It was never much of an issue growing up because I slept alone and only caused annoyances when my bed would squeak.  
  
I remember when I was a kid, the dark scared me and I would rock with my eye closes really tight. I've had anxiety issues and clearly remember being anxious and rocking as a kid to relieve that stress.  
  
Now that I'm an adult it's embarrassing any time I would be seeing someone and they would stay the night. I'm currently in a LTR and I've kicked the need to rock in order to go to sleep but now my partner has let me know I rock while I'm asleep and sometimes it's very hard, almost violent. He ends up having to move to the couch.  
  
I hate it because I don't even know I'm doing it and I've always been really embarrassed about it and never thought it was an issue because no one has ever told me about it before.  
  
According to my parents one of my cousins does the same thing. So I don't know what I can do to maybe train myself to stop. Is there anything I can do?  
I don't have insurance, so seeing a specialist is out of the question. (Plus I couldn't afford it even if I did have insurance).  
  
I just don't know what options I have that could really help. Any insight would be appreciated!  
  
EDIT: I just thought of something to add that makes this a bit weirder.  
If I'm lying on the couch or cuddled on the couch (or any small ish bed of sorts) or the floor, I don't rock at all. Like if someone is RIGHT next to me (cuddling or in a small bed) to my knowledge I won't rock at all.   
If I'm by myself on the couch, I won't rock. But if I'm in my (or any) bed, I will.  
  
EDIT2: Really appreciate all of the comments, suggestions and links :) First time posting in LPT didn't know what to expect. Currently at work so will get to replying to comments and PMs shortly! :)

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/1zyuqu/
author:fuzio
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1053
numComments:260
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True