title:
LPT: Clean a Slightly Dirty Car Quicky and Inexpensively

content:
I am a chauffeur, and one of the tasks I have to do at the end of my shift is to bring the car in washed.  The normal wash places are always closed, and the auto wash places don't have good value for my money.

First, I go to one of those self-spray car wash places.  These offer amazing band for your buck.  You control how much time you want, and which features to use.

The minimum charge at the one I use is $1.25.  This gives me about four minutes of wash time.  If I were to try to use all the functions, I'd never make it because it takes so much time to get around the car.  So here are the two features I use:

* High Pressure Wash.

* High Pressure Wax.

When you bucket wash, you'll pre-rinse as a prep, as wetted dirt and grime sticks less.  But If you go through drive-thru car washes, you'll find that some don't bother with a pre-rinse cycle.  They immediately soap the car down.  The high pressure wash is essentially doing both at the same time.  Use this to your adavantage.  Be sure to spray the bottom and wheel wells, and you'll be fine.

The high pressure wax easily has enough pressure to rinse the soap off.  So I use this to rinse and give the car a nice sheen afterward.

Now, if my bosses complained, I would find another option, but I have developed a reputation of keeping the car in such good shape when I come in, that my bosses don't bother to inspect them.  "We trust you, Saxon.  You always bring the car in clean."

This is far faster, far cheaper, and a lot less dull than using a drive thru.  The water is always kept a little warmer than usual, probably to protect the pipes from freezing in the winter, and the long wand makes it difficult to get myself wet anyway.

Now, if your car is positively filthy, this technique probably won't serve your purposes.  It'll take too long, and you won't have enough time to make use of all the needed attributes.

But I have a clean car, done quickly, and is clean enough to keep me in top standing in my chauffeur's position.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/2006m3/
author:saxonjf
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1632
numComments:252
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True