title:
YSK that $20 bidet attachments for your toilet, are worth every penny!

content:
Let me first state that I'm not trying to endorse a specific product. I purchased a bidet attachment for my toilet; they basically just attach under the toilet seat and hook up to the water source from the wall. These things changed my life! We all get those horrible shits where you just sit there wipe for a 100 years and it never gets better. Later in the day you find yourself having a swamp ass and it doesn't get better until you take a shower. Well this changes that! No more swamp ass! No more weird post-shit walking! It is so refreshing that it feels like you just took a shower! Not to mention it cuts down on TP usage as well. So now after each shit, TP is used just for drying off your ass! No more forever wipes! So if you enjoy a clean ass, I highly recommend getting one of these. The one I purchased was bought off Amazon for around $20 and works great! If you are curious about which model I bought, you can send me a PM and I'll give you a link, but I'm sure they all work great! 

TLDR; Spending $20 on a bidet attachment will change your life!

EDIT: Inbox is blowing up. The model I bought is the Astor Bidet CB-1000. Sorry, I can't post the link for it because it violates the rules. 

EDIT 2: Alright, lots of questions so I'll do a little FAQ for the lazy:

-----

Q: Is the water cold?

A: It is not that bad. It only uses a small amount of water and most of the time it is around room temperature.

--------
Q: I live in Antarctica/Canada, will it be too cold?

A: Maybe, but good news. They make models that have warmers built in or you can run a line from the warm water from the sink/bathtub instead. Or you can be manly and clean your ass with slushy bidet water!

----
Q: Will I cover my walls, legs, children, etc with shit water?

A: No! They have an angle that sprays up for direct b-hole accuracy. Your walls and clothes are safe!

----

Q: But I love wet wipes?

A: These work much better than wet wipes! Not even close!

-----
Q: Are they hard to install?

A: No, mine took simple tools and less than 20 minutes.

----
Q: Can they work for female parts?

A: Yes, some models do include a female mode to freshen up your hot pocket when you're on your cycle.

----

Q: Will my b-hole turn green and fall off?

A: Maybe! 

----
Q: You put a comma where it shouldn't be, ermahgerd! Did your mother drink while she was pregnant??

A: When I was a child, I was deprived of commas. My doctor tells me that, I use, them, too much, now to make, up for, lost time,,,,I,,,,,CANT,,,,,STOP,,,,,,,,,,,,

----
Q: Dude, you need to eat supplements and then you'll never have to use TP again! (not a question)

A: I have tried digestive supplements. After shitting out what I thought was a Pringles can, I decided they weren't for me. 

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/22m9hs/
author:bacord18
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:2626
numComments:762
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True