title:
LPT / PSA - If you have a landscaper who mows your lawn, when they show up, go inside. Explanation inside.

content:
Couldn't really think of where to post this, but after two incidents this week, I figured more people should be aware of the danger commercial mowers pose, even from a distance. 

I live in the northeast, and this week is our first week of lawn mowing. Earlier this week I had a customer come out while I was mowing his backyard to move around some of his kids toys on the lawn. Just today I had a grandmother bring out her 2-3 year old grandson to watch us mowing, because the kid is fascinated with lawnmowers. As the business owner I'm extremely cautious and aware of safety and immediately stopped mowing and asked them to go inside. Both were about 30-50 feet away from me at the time, which many people think would be a safe distance. 

HOWEVER

What most people don't think about is the absolute power a commercial lawnmower has, compared to that little push mower you but at Home Depot for 200 bucks. Both of my mowers cost around 10k each, and have engines with around 25-30 horsepower. Couple that with a set of three solid steel twenty inch mower blades, weighing about 5 lbs each, spinning at thousands of RPM, and the potential for things to go bad very quickly exists. 

As an example, let's say a dirty old baseball is left in the yard, and I can't see it because it's semi buried in grass. The tip speed of a commercial mower blade is incredibly fast.  If a blade hits that baseball, it rattles around inside the mower deck for a half second or so, then proceeds to shoot out the discharge opening at speeds up to what I would guess is around 100 mph. With zero control over direction. I've personally sent a baseball through the front window of a house across the street, 100 feet or more from where I was cutting.  Rocks, sticks, and other items we can't see in the lawn, have the potential to become dangerous projectiles, and nobody wants to get clocked in the head by a baseball zipping through the air randomly, or have a stick that now has a sharp edge from being chopped by a blade impale them in the leg. Remember that scene from the Final Destination movie where the mom takes a rock to the eye?  Yeah that's a possibility. 

This also applies to when you are walking near one. Keep in mind that commercial mowers discharge on the right side of the machine, so if you're walking past a guy mowing, pay attention and be aware that they are dangerous. A good landscaper will shut off the mower blades or throttle the machine down and allow you to pass without putting you in danger, but there are plenty of guys who don't give a shit and will ignore you. 

Just wanted to give a heads up, because the grandmother with the toddler made me realize most people don't recognize the danger. She didn't realize she was putting herself and the kid in danger just by being out there. I kindly informed her that he'd be better off watching from inside, explained what I just typed here, and she was thoroughly surprised and told me she had no idea they were so powerful. 


The more you know....

EDIT - well this blew up way more than expected. Couple things. Firstly, incidents like the ball through the window are rare. However they do happen. Better to be safe than sorry. 

And secondly, to the people saying just use a smaller mower. Here's reality. Time is money. A bigger mower cuts more grass quicker. I can cut more grass with a commercial mower than ten guys pushing little 20 inch mowers. 10 guys on a lawn for an hour would cost a fortune in labor.  You want to pay 400 a week for a lawn cut, I'll cut it with push mowers. Or you want to pay 40 a week. Your call :-)

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/23b67r/
author:Ken_U_Dig_It
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:2243
numComments:470
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True