title:
LPT: Greatly improve your memory using "memory palaces."

content:
Sometimes you may not have access to google or a pen and paper to remember things later. I find myself wanting to research many things during the day, but forget by the time I get home. 

The idea is to imagine a location you are very familiar with, say the house you grew up in or where you work. You create a path that you mentally walk through at that location. Whatever you want to remember, you place it in certain parts of that location.

The trick is to make the thing you want to remember weird and outlandish. For example the other day I heard a song on the radio that I didn't know and I heard the words "holy ghost and talk show host" so I imagined Jesus Christ and Jon Stewart fighting in my living room. Then when I get home I take time to walk through my memory palace and I see that strange scene of those two fighting and I remember I wanted to google the song. Plateau by Nirvana!

This takes some practice but it has really helped me, and I have terrible memory! Works with grocery lists and just about anything else.

Edit: Wow this kinda blew up! I guess? I wanted to mention the book "Moonwalking with Einstein" but I was afraid to break the rules. Check it out if this interests you!

Edit2: I know a lot of people have trouble with this because it's not that intuitive. But how I learned was to imagine really weird shit. Imagine a grocery list with eggs and milk. Don't just walk into your palace and look at eggs on the book shelf. You need to imagine crazier things like the minute you walk in, someone is throwing eggs at you and some chick is shooting milk out of her tits at you! IDK I'm drunk!

Edit3: OK, holy fuck.... I never said that song was originally by Nirvana. The version I heard on the radio was Nirvana. It is not the point of this post.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/2cjojl/
author:ilikewhales
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:2400
numComments:444
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True