title:
YSK how to deal with somebody suffering from depression and that it isn't only sadness

content:
I just feel like trying to explain how it feels and what helps and doesn't help. I will focus mainly on motivation; or really the lack thereof.

So for most people if they are given a task, say a homework assignment, that is due a week from the day it was assigned they may procrastinate as most people do and finish it up the day before it is due. When they KNOW they must do it in order to turn it in. Some people will just do it parts at a time throughout the week.

A person with depression would be handed the same task and it carries the same weight as it would to any normal person in terms of understanding. They understand it is important, it could be a worth 20% of their final grade, and they know how important it is to do. 

Similar to procrastinators, it is entirely likely they will put it off until the last possible minute. But this is where the similarities end...

Backtrack a few days... Being depressed, you feel the urge to get things done. You lay in bed at night and think "Tomorrow I am going to wake up and knock the fuck out of this project!" Then the morning comes, and passes, and it is 1 PM. You decide you have to use the bathroom and your stomach is empty, you need to get out of bed finally, and you do, and your day begins. 

The whole day you know you told yourself you would get that project done, and you really want to because you know you would feel amazing having it off your plate, so to speak, but you never pick up the pencil and paper. This happens every day until the day before it is due, when your friend from class asks you how the project is going...

You tell him some bullshit like you're almost done, because you don't want to let him down. You have already let yourself down for a week and it sucks, so you don't let anybody know. 

You know it is due tomorrow, and that it has to get done, but for whatever reason you keep doing everything else besides the project. Then your friend comes over and sees you haven't done anything and asks "Dude, what the hell you need to have that done by tomorrow, get off your computer, why haven't you started? Fuck, Man." ...

You have no answer. On the outside it looks like laziness and neglect of responsibility, but the person suffering from depression is not under control anymore. 

They want more than anything to get that project done and get a good grade and have their parents be proud of them. They don't want to have to lie to every family friend about how they are doing in college and how much of a good time it is, or have to lie to their own friends to avoid disappointing them...

Depression allows the person to know exactly what they need to get done and how important it is to get it done, but won't let them actually do it. There is no real reason to "Why are you depressed?" or "Why haven't you started?" or "Why didn't you study?", so don't ask them those types of questions, assuming you know they are suffering from depression, because that only makes the depression worse. It makes them feel like they are letting the questioner down, because they don't know the answer.

There are tons of articles and studies on how to spot someone that is depressed, because it is very difficult. So if you know someone who is suffering or even someone you suspect might be, don't ask those types of questions... There's no answer. 

Instead, spend time with them and just talk. Or just hang out with them in silence, whatever they are feeling like doing. Watch some TV together, play video games, gossip, it doesn't matter what you do as long as you show that you care about them. 

Then you can start to ask the real questions, but in a way that shows no judgement or disappointment:

"So what did you actually get on that last test? I don't care, I just want to make sure you're okay?" Or anything like that. Get them to tell you the truth about how they feel and what they're going through, because that is really what they want. Just to be able to hang out without feeling like they have to hide things.

Once you know someone is depressed, if you know they have to do something, do it with them. Force them to do it. Deep down that is what they want; be their motivation. Instead of having their own brain telling them and getting them to do things, do that part for them. 

They may not seem appreciative, or maybe they will, but either way they are finally happy they got something done and with someone they know they can share anything with.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/2feiyc/
author:FrankFeTched
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:1665
numComments:424
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True