title:
LPT: When you tell a child not to do something, explain to them why they shouldn't

content:
My mother often told me to not do a bunch of things but she never really explained why. Maybe it was the language barrier or her being lazy, but it eventually ended up with me not listening to her spontaneous advice a lot of the time.

She told me not to rub my eyes too hard. I listened like a good stupid trusting boy until I hit puberty and decided I can rub my eyes however I want. I now have broken capillaries.

She told me not to pick/scratch my skin. I couldn't resist after a while and now I have a lot more scars from acne and bug bites than I should.

She told me to not eat too many herbs when I was sick. I got frustrated because I didn't feel any effect from them and I ate a bunch. I had the most painful and longest lasting explosive diarrhea of my life.

She told me to do and not do so many things and I should have listened to her 99% of the time, and I probably would have if she took the time to explain why. 

Whether it's a simple 3 word reply like "You'll have water poop!" or a long one like "If you overdose on anything then you'll have unwanted effects. These herbs help you but too much will give you water poop!", it doesn't matter. As long as you honestly telling them why.

The intuition goes a long way. Now, I'm really insecure about my scars and veins and what not. All these silly problems that built up would have never happened had I just listened to her. If she explained why, I would have listened too.

Don't patronize them either. Explain it to them. If they ask again, answer again.

EDIT: This is from the perspective of a first generation child of a widowed immigrant. I don't want to sound arrogant, but this probably doesn't apply to people who have it "well off". This should be much more helpful for those who have it tough and have to grow pretty much by themselves, which *obviously* applies to most of the white middle class reddit users amirite. (this was my attempt at sarcasm dont take it seriously)

I forget that families like the one in my childhood will probably be nothing like the families right now.

EDIT2: I should have chosen better words. By child I mean, a person that you are raising who isn't completely capable of being independent. Doesn't matter what age although hopefully they aren't 25 years old.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/2lzbxj/
author:amphoe
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:3015
numComments:658
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True