title:
YSK: Diamonds are not as beautiful, or valuable, as you are lead to believe.

content:
tl;dr- research before you buy diamonds. Make sure they're from safe, humane mines and that they're not blood diamonds from corrupt and slave labor mines.

Why you need to know this- to not support corrupt people and countries and to not get taken advantage of at a jeweler, and I suppose to know how shitty jewelers are, especially since it's the holidays.

I am HEAVILY against diamonds, mining, and the companies. As long as there is demand, there will be supply. Your desire for diamonds results in slave labor, child labor, death, torture, etc. The workers, which are subjected to some of the worst working conditions possible (deaths happen every single day because there are little to no safety rules, and they're not enforced anyway), make LESS THAN 1 dollar a day, while they make $15million a day for their bosses. They live in extreme poverty with no access to clean, running water, septic, and food. All for something that is worthless and artificially valued.

In 1947, De Beers hit the "jackpot". Only problem is, that there was no market for the tons and tons of product they found. They weren't rare! So, what did they do? They used propaganda techniques to trick and con people into believing the diamonds were worth something. Something expensive, only the elite could afford. A status symbol. "A Diamond is Forever" was the slogan, followed by much more straight-forward ads of suggesting you were no one if you didn't have a diamond, just like in advertising today. The ads might as well have been "If you don't buy your wife a diamond, you're a terrible husband/person/human being and probably a drain on society. Why haven't you jumped off a cliff yet?" While housewives went around muttering things like "Did you see Majorie's brand new diamond necklace? Wasn't it something?! I wish we could afford something like that." De Beer's plan was working- class competition and inferiority! This, obviously, was making the husband feel inadequate (more of the plan because, now, even if they couldn't afford them, they were buying) (sound familiar to how they sell toys to kids? You're ONLY cool if you have it). Convince people they need something, then guilt someone into getting it for them... Oh, and who do you think came up with diamond engagement rings? Yep. De Beers. Just another use for their already worthless product. 

They manipulate the market by stock piling diamonds, then convincing people we're running out of them, yet 133 million carats of diamonds are produced each year. They, then inflate prices to ASTRONOMICAL amounts by completely controlling supply and demand. All for something that is worthless, other than the artificial prices that have been set. We literally GAVE worth to something. I wish I could convince people my shit is worth millions. Wait, isn't that called art nowadays? Diamonds are not expensive to mine. Yes, it is a $13 Billion industry. The mining operation is! For the equipment builders, the tool builders, the execs, parts manufacturers, governments, etc. And it is these businessmen that own these mines and are in play in the global jewelry trade, which is a $72B/year industry alone- and that's probably BEFORE all the shady practices and tax loopholes). Not to mention, 

Even your local jewelers mark up over product over a thousand percent. Seriously, next time you look for an engagement ring, barter BARTER BARTER! If it's $10,000, negotiate low, so there's some wiggle room, but not too low to where it's insulting. I guarantee you will not pay face value. That 10k ring he was selling, I bet cost him $1k or less. He will be more than happy to sell it for 5 or 7k, because there's always going to be a sucker walking through the door that pays 25k for a 10k ring because "he can or whatever". Same concept kind of as a restaurant. They make practically nothing on food- it's all about the alcohol, which is usually a 300% mark-up. Getting you in the door is the plan.

De Beers is made up of billionaires that have made their money by ruining land- rendering it unusable (OK, not that Serbia was great to start), destroying resources, manipulating the system, people, and everyone they could to make billions, while turning a blind eye to and their backs on the countries (the people, not the GOVT), regions, communities, and people that have made them their billions.

BTW, there are also MANY different rankings of diamond clarity. Obviously, the prices increases substantially with the higher ranking. By comparison, a while back I was a going to buy a 1/4ct (I'm 24) diamond ring from a lux-retailer that was like D-SI3 Diamond Clarity/Prices, which is obviously small and is a little cloudy due to not great quality, but it's all I could afford. They wanted over $600. I declined. Went to another, non-lux-jeweler, and realized how much more beautiful gemstones were. Got my gf a beautiful either 3/4 or a full carat Blue Topaz necklace, set in sterling silver, and in gemstone standards, was as clear as it gets. Gemstone Clarity and I believe I paid around $350, and that's after setting, sizing, choosing the necklace, tax etc.

So, please, people, if you must buy diamonds, please do your RESEARCH and make sure they are not blood or conflict diamonds and come from humane/high standard mines. Or switch to the much prettier gem stones! With Christmas around the corner, the ads will pick up and you might get the desire to buy one, or your wife might want one. Again, just do research and find a humane mine.
Here's one I've found through Google: [Brilliant Earth] (http://www.brilliantearth.com/conflict-free-diamonds/
I was looking around the site and they do a lot of custom jewelry, as well as lab created diamonds.

Some other sites for information: 
[Why Diamonds Aren't All Girls' Best Friends](http://www.awid.org/News-Analysis/Friday-Files/Why-Diamonds-Aren-t-All-Girls-Best-Friends)

[Corruption in Zimbabwe](http://www.africaportal.org/dspace/articles/greed-and-corruption-zimbabwe%E2%80%99s-marange-diamond-fields)

Thanks for reading! Sorry for the length, but I hope I helped to inform people.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/2m4fl7/
author:cameron0208
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:2076
numComments:703
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True