title:
LPT: If you bought a video game console for Christmas, update it now.

content:
Especially if it is a Wii U. 

The servers the systems run on are going to be slammed and quite a few games may require a system update to play. You'll be the unsung Christmas hero if you update it now instead of having them wait hours (literal hours) to play their new system. 

If you bought a 2DS/3DS with Mario Kart 7 or any other free game, verify the game is physical. The 2DS/Mario Kart 7 bundle is a download code that needs to be redeemed and downloaded. This will potentially be hard to do tomorrow. Download sizes aren't terribly large. 

If you bought an Xbox One with the two Assassin's Creed games, both games will be download codes and both games are extremely large downloads. Judge your internet connection before attempting to download these. 

If you bought a PS4 with a "free game download", you'll have the option to pick through three games once you enter the code. They are all large downloads. Again, consider your internet speed beforehand. 

The Wii U is notorious for incredibly slow downloads. Updates are no different. If you bought a Wii U, unbox it and update it now. If you bought Smash Bros., the update is actually on the disc. Pop the disc in beforehand and finish the update, as the installation time still takes some time. 

Edit2: If you bought a PS Vita with Borderlands 2 bundled in, the game needs to be downloaded. Consider downloading the game beforehand so they don't have to wait. 

Edit: Games also can require updates! Some of the downloads for them are larger than the system updates themselves. Put the games into the system and you should be prompted for an update before, or as, the game loads. 

Most systems are super simple to repackage nicely. Be gentle taking it out and try not to worry about the system cover going in nicely. There's a pretty good chance the person receiving it is just going to rip it right off afterwards anyway. Worst case scenario, you can wrap the box and say that the system is already plugged in and good to go... Though I'm not a big fan of that. 

Hope this keeps everyone's Christmas a little merrier.  

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/2qa741/
author:Zacharuni
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1337
numComments:275
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True