title:
LPT: When talking to your SO about things they are doing that are bothering you, end the conversation discussing the things that the both of you are doing right.

content:
Communication in relationships is tough. I find that when I'm having a serious talk with my SO about the things that are bothering me, we both tend to get offended while discussing it. Emotions get high, we become exhausted, and we're left feeling depressed about everything.

Recently, whenever we have these serious conversations, we made an agreement that we would end the conversation discussing the things we are doing right and the things we appreciate about each other. I've found that both of us come out of the conversation with a more positive attitude and we're more likely to compromise on things as a result. It also leaves us in a better mood and we don't get depressed about things afterward.

Think of it like the old Mary Poppins song: *A spoonful of sugar helps the medicine go down.*

Edit: this got huge! After reading some of the comments here I should caution that this works best with couples who know how to communicate and respect each other's feelings. If you're having problems just *communicating* with your partner, **fix the communication first!** My SO  and I are both pretty straight-up and level-headed people, and we both respect each other's feelings. We're both sarcastic assholes so we have to set time aside for serious conversations, otherwise we'll just assume we're joking around. This is what works for us. Obviously results may vary depending on the nature of your relationship. I figure since most people are pretty reasonable and respectful to their SO, this might work for them. Remember, you and your SO are the only people who can understand and communicate about what's best for your relationship. Happy new year folks!

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/2r0km2/
author:iampoopface
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:3671
numComments:468
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True