title:
LPT: Anger is usually a secondary emotion. When you get angry, ask yourself, "What emotion am I really feeling?"

content:
Anger is a weird emotion. When you have a very strong emotion like sadness, fear, guilt, etc., your brain immediately throws anger into the mix to cover up those difficult emotions. 

It is *so* much easier to let anger take control. But you can't even imagine how you can mature and grow as a human being if you can work on this.


*Edit:*

This post is getting a lot of attention so I want to clarify a few things.

I am not claiming that anger on its own does not exist. The human experience is a vast and ridiculously complicated thing and I don't claim to have a full grasp on it whatsoever.  

But I do want to say that most people would be surprised when they take a look at their anger and really trace its roots and begin to ask "why?".

What I really want from this post is to just share a tidbit of information with everyone out there. If you disagree, cool. This isn't personal. But if just one person is able to take this and apply it to their lives and manage an anger outburst in in a positive way, learning something about yourself while you are at it, I think that would be so cool. 


*Middle of the night edit:*

Lots of feelings and thoughts going on as I read a lot of the responses and conversations here. 
One thing that sticks out the most is that lots of people are answering with a specific emotion.  It's kind of interesting that it turned out this way because I never really intended my post to ask a specific question.  Rather, my LPT was directed towards *any* time you get angry because we can get angry for lots of different reasons. 

But regardless, this thread seems to be cathartic for some people which is cool!  Let's encourage one another and have good discussion!


*Last edit:*

Lots of people getting super offended on here. 


url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/2sp444/
author:thebestisyetocome
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:3513
numComments:916
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True