title:
LPT: Most if not all Fire stations will install your child's car seat for you to ensure it's done right

content:
Just call the non-emergency number for the local fire station or drop by and bring some cookies or pizza and they'll be happy to do it. These guys want your baby to be as safe as you. 

edit: From the responses it seems that this is a city by city issue, although many have said there's is the same. Best bet it seems is to call first and see if your department (fire or Police) is certified or use the links below that others have posted and I've added to the edit. For those that think reading a manual is all it takes, my kid's safety is more important than my ego. I did it right and still had it checked, but I knew it was done right. 

http://cert.safekids.org/ 

and

 http://www.safercar.gov/cpsApp/cps/index.htm 

edit 2: update wording in edit. 

edit 3: This is awesome. Lots of opinions in here. Let's clear up a few of the most common. 

1) YMMV depending on location whether that is country, state, county or city. However, there are lots of other options that people are throwing out!

2) I totally agree with all of unoriginal people who think you should read the manual. Yes, read the manual do it yourself and if you so choose have someone who is certified look at it. Your ego can probably handle that. 

3) When/If you do take it in learn how to do it, let them teach you and then check it after. You will as a parent take your car seat in and out all the freaking time. 

4) I agree it's not that hard, but statistics would tell you that 9/10 of you super brilliant keyboard cowboys probably have screwed something up in your install at one point. Also, according to the number of CPSTs that have commented it happens all the time. 

5) Asking for help or just a second set of eyes on something as important as the thing that could save your child's life does not make you unfit to have a kid. 

Thanks all!

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/2tamrd/
author:Daltxpony
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:3169
numComments:525
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True