title:
LPT: Likely to be stuck in an airport tonight? Consider the "Go ugly early" strategy

content:
As winter storm Juno bears down on the eastern seaboard tonight, if you are in an airport and you are in the massive herd of travelers scrambling to get cabs, shuttles or buses to hotels or motels that may or may not have vacancy, through roads that may or may not be passable, consider this possibility: you might not make it to that hotel. You might end up stuck in the airport for the night. The sooner you come to that realization and the sooner you resign yourself to that fate, the better, because the one thing you don't want to do is find yourself giving up at 2 am, freezing your tips off making your way back to the terminal only to find the all the best spots for sleeping in chairs and on the floor are taken. Go ugly early. Once your smart phone is telling you that there are no rooms within a mile or two, or the shuttles are running every twenty minutes and there are six shuttles worth of people ahead of you in line, just head back in and find a warm spot, away from the sliding glass doors, preferably away from the harshest lighting, with padded chairs, and set your luggage up a leg's length away. Stretch out with some extra layers to keep warm and cover your face, and try to get 4 or 5 hours of sleep. In the morning, you'll see masses of unlucky travelers who waited too long to give up on the hotel, and you'll see them laying on the filthy floor, under bright lights, using a couple of pairs of jeans as a makeshift mattress and laptop case as a pillow, and you'll congratulate yourself on your risk assessment skills and your ability to scout out the prime chairs to sleep in uncomfortably at the airport.

But don't sleep in. You'll want to get in line early to try to catch a seat on one of the six flights that might make it onto the tarmac tomorrow.


url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/2tt3ol/
author:irvinemike
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1251
numComments:186
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True