title:
LPT: Increase the chances of recovering your lost pet by hanging an obnoxiously large sign in front of your house.

content:
[Lost Doge Sign](http://imgur.com/a/3Vwez)

Our dog Addie, short for Attention Deficit Disorder, likes to wander around if you don't keep a close eye on her. 
Normally she'll find her way back/won't stray too far from the yard. 
My Dad got a bit preoccupied and within 10 minutes she was nowhere to be found. 
Our immediate neighbors are quite familiar with our dog and have scooped her up and brought her back on a number of occasions over the years. 
This time that wouldn't be the case.

My family searched for a solid 3 hours and well into the night around the entire neighborhood to no avail. 

My Dad had an idea to hang this huge linen on our tree (which I later added a Google Voice number to). 
The idea is that the linen is incredibly hard to miss, and grabs your attention more than the average mailbox flyer.

8 days later, someone from way down the street who usually doesn't travel our way saw the big sign and realized the dog they took in was ours. 

The next day my Dad changed the sign to a Thank You, and I was surprised with how many people stopped to offer well wishes when I would get out of my car coming home from work. Most of the people I've never seen in my life!

TL;DR: Hang a huge sign in front of your place so that people will have a hard time ignoring your message. 
Could probably do the same in an apartment building with a poster board or something along those lines.

Edit: Dad's apostrophe use was acceptable. 

Edit 2: Cool, didn't expect this to blow up. We did the usual thing anyone would do: call vets in the area, humane society, local lost pet facebook groups... you name it, we called them/posted. Point of me posting this tip was for that extra "why didn't we think of that?" factor. 

Also, when I said that my close neighbors would *often* return my dog, it was a matter of seconds and she would really only wander 50 extra feet from your line of sight. My family isn't that ridiculous. All of our dogs are trained but this one is a bit rambunctious. 

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/2tub1n/
author:catalystRKS
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1856
numComments:177
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True