title:
YSK lillies are HIGHLY toxic to cats. Even a small amount of leaves or pollen can quickly result in kidney failure and be fatal.

content:
A friend's cat was recently sent to the emergency veterinarian. He may not live. 

She had an easter lily in her house. The other day she noticed that her cat had brushed against the plant just enough for the pollen to get on his fur (and subsequently be licked off). 

She happens to be a sort of helicopter cat-mom, so she googled it right away and saw it was toxic. She called her Vet, and the vet told her to bring  the cat in immediately because it was likely that his kidneys had already started to fail. 

You may know that cats are descended from desert animals, and can easily survive off of a single kidney... But losing both is practically a death sentence!

Here's a link to more information.

http://www.preventivevet.com/cats/lesser-known-pet-toxicities-lily-toxicity-in-cats

Owning a cat has taught me that there are many surprisingly common things that are poisonous (grapes and raisins for one! My cat tries to eat grapes constantly). I strongly advocate indoor living for cats because of this. 

[edit] Due to many of the comments, i'm reposting this from another comment: I really wont sit here and pretend i can tell everyone how the best way to raise their cats..but i can say i'd much rather neuter my cat and give it a good long indoor life. In my lifetime, i've seen too many animals die from poisoning (from shitty neighbors), dog attacks (people who walk their dogs off leash), coyote attacks, cars and disease.

As for all of you "joking" about using lilies to kill cats: I'm just happy I don't life the sort of life where killing an animal brings me any sort of satisfaction. I made this YSK with people who care about animals in mind and that's the end of it. I've been on the internet for too long to get riled up, life judges shitty people on it's own.




url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/2v9mqq/
author:Kholzie
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:2256
numComments:204
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True