title:
LPT: How to merge in a party when you only know one person or less

content:
This is a social-life saving trick I learned a while back. Basically, if you are invited to a party and you don't know anyone but one person, the natural thing to do is sticking with that one person the whole party and hope for the best, right?  
This might work and he might even introduce you to other people, but there is a better way to do so:  
Asking the host if he needs help.  
Since there is always *something* to do, it is very likely that the host will say something along the lines of "yeah sure I need you to take X to Y".  
Sometimes, the host won't feel comfortable with letting the guests do things for him - just insist. It'll work, I promise.  
(Bonus LPT: If you are hosting a party and someone offers you help, *always* give them something to do, no matter what it is.)
It was pointed out that you shouldn't be too pushy, if you are absolutely sure that the host is saying no because there is nothing to help with - there is no point for you to insist.   
Also, it was  pointed out that the host might ask you do to something massive such as cleaning puke. Well, he won't. It's his party and he wouldn't like anyone to do anything too big.  
Now here comes the tricky part, you have to complete your mission while talking to the people you intract with. This is crucial, because if you just do what you were asked to do without talking, you will be that loner who just serves food and doesn't say anything.  
All you need to pass this step is just somewhat level of social skills, I'm sure you'll be fine as long is you remember that you are the one that have to start the conversation.  
(For help with that part, you might want to visit /r/socialskills.)  
This LPT was very useful the other day, as I visited another branch of the youth movement I take part in. I didn't know *anyone* out of the 120 people there. I used this trick and by the end, they even asked me to come again :)  
This should help you guys in similar situations as well. But remeber - offering help will only get you started, you have to do the rest by yourself.
  
EDIT BAJILLION TRILLION: All edits deleted. Enjoy the tip.  
Kinda off topic here, but some of you guys are asking about the youth movement, so here is a briefe expaination which has *nothing* to do with the tip:  
It's a youth movement for kids with and without special needs (things such as autism or physical disabilities).  
Every week we gather in the same place and play with them. Sometimes it's just fun games and sometimes we actually talk about serious topics.  
It is a lot of fun, everyone are friends with everyone (with and without special needs), which is pretty. damn. cool.  
You also learn a lot of things about yourself and the way you think about society and some other emotional shit. But I'm mostly there because it's fun.  
If you have any farther questions, please contact me on PM. I don't like talking about this in public, because it usually really annoys people.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/2vr90z/
author:EggplantPower
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:2567
numComments:716
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True