title:
YSK . If an employee's tips combined with the employer's direct wages of at least $2.13 an hour do not equal the federal minimum hourly wage, the employer must make up the difference.

content:
http://www.dol.gov/elaws/faq/esa/flsa/002.htm

"What is the minimum wage for workers who receive tips?
The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) requires payment of at least the federal minimum wage to covered, nonexempt employees.  An employer of a tipped employee is only required to pay $2.13 an hour in direct wages if that amount plus the tips received equals at least the federal minimum wage, the employee retains all tips and the employee customarily and regularly receives more than $30 a month in tips. If an employee's tips combined with the employer's direct wages of at least $2.13 an hour do not equal the federal minimum hourly wage, the employer must make up the difference.
Some states have minimum wage laws specific to tipped employees. When an employee is subject to both the federal and state wage laws, the employee is entitled to the provisions which provides the greater benefits."

This illustrates more problems in the abuses of tipped employees as they are worried about losing their jobs if they ask their employer pay them the difference or fear that their employer will fight them over it.. that is because relying on tips is a very insecure position to be in. 


That is what we need to fix and to do that is to stand up and make employers responsible for properly compensating their employees, not use consumer guilt to escape responsibility. 


If we are paying so much for tipping anyway, then we don't really care if you get rid of tips and increase the prices.

And for all you people who rely on tips? Let me tell you Americans will ALWAYS tip. They will just feel better about it if you are making 15$ an hour from your employer. They will still tip you, because America does that. Imagine never having to get behind on your bills because you missed the weekend shift again!

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/2xrv1t/
author:[deleted]
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:2883
numComments:699
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True