title:
YSK that LA Fitness "No Long Term Contracts" is utter Bullsh*t

content:
UPDATE: Thank you Redditor's for your replies. Since this post, roughly 13 hours ago, LA Fitness Corporate contacted me regarding my case. I spoke to a lovely woman named Taylor who was very helpful, and they have refunded me for all the false charges over the course of these last 6 months. While I would've preferred not to have to achieve that this way; it was effective and they handled the situation swiftly. Hopefully they learned something from this experience, or at the very least someone somewhere did. Again, Thank you all.

Shout Out to Taylor from Corporate. Well done, and I hope they give you a promotion. #GiveTaylorAPromotion  

Thanks!

----

Original Post:

To Whom It May Concern,

I am writing you today to discuss my disgust with your business tactics. I find them to be distasteful and, quite frankly, downright lies. It would help if I gave you a little backstory first though. See, I was a member of your gym over 6 months ago. The gym was fine itself. It suited my needs, and I had no issue paying the fairly steep bill each month even though there were plenty of other options. So, I have no gripes when it comes to you meeting those requirements. The problem arose when I decided to cancel my membership. You see, I moved out of state last September. To a state, where LA Fitness does not exist; hence my need to cancel. So, I did what anyone would do. I went online, and I selected “Cancel Membership”. Simple! Case closed!. Oh… wait. Not so fast! In order to complete this process I must submit the cancellation form with my own hand writing. Great. Back to the 19th century where we have to hand write letters to get things done. Fine. So be it. So I proceeded. Signed. Sealed. Delivered. Done! On my way with my life again….

Fast-forward 7 months to present time. What’s this? Another charge from LA Fitness on my credit card? Now, in the stipulations of canceling, you are required to give 2 months notice. I get that. And I made that mistake, so I was willing to forfeit 2 months of membership fees as a consolation even though I wasn’t able to use it. Congrats LA, you win that round. However, what I did not agree to was 7 months of being charged! You might ask, why didn’t you contact us sooner? Great question. Back in December, I did contact you. Multiple times actually. I was told by multiple CSR’s of your establishment, that they would see to it that my account would be deactivated. So, instead of berating them (which you clearly set them up for by the way) I politely said thank you and considered the matter resolved. But, here I sit. Staring at 3 more months of charges from your wonderful company. The funny part is, when I visit your website, the first thing that slaps me in the face is “No Long Term Contracts!”. I laugh, because let’s be fucking serious. That’s entirely untrue. Sure, I can cancel whenever I want. As long as I dot all my T’s, cross all my I’s, cut off a limb, hand deliver a letter to your corporate offices, and/or live in the same state where I can walk into one of your buildings and cause havoc until someone answers my demands. Oh, and I can’t forget paying 2 months more before the account is officially deactivated.

I digress. Well, actually I don’t because my question still remains…Is all this really necessary to cancel a membership?! Do you really hope to discourage your customers so much from canceling, that they’ll just bend over and continue to pay the fee because they just don’t feel like going through the hassle? Is my membership still active?!

Update: I was told today, March 18th, 2015, after my nice conversation with yet another reassuring CSR that my account would be officially deactivated on April 9th and that I may continue to use it until then. I guess she missed the part about me living in another state. Either way, I hope she means 2015 because I realized she did not specify. I guess I should’ve asked her to hand deliver me a letter stating that would be the case. Oh well, I supposed I’ll wait, yet again, until April to see if you’re still stealing money from me. In which case, I'll be forced to cancel my Credit Card because that's easier. Stay tuned…


PS. You owe me 200$. Roughly. Money that could’ve went to charity, instead of your greedy corporate fingers. 


Sincerely,

Current Member (Pending Deactivation Followthrough)

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/2zjuhj/
author:sctskw
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:1389
numComments:175
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True