title:
LPT: A real friend is someone who will make an effort to be with you far after you run out of things to do together.

content:
Where as a superficial friend will only hangout to partake in a common activity. This thought has really hit home today and I hope you are compelled to reflect on your personal relationships as well. :,/ (x-post)

Edit: I'm by in no way excluding other qualifications from being a signal of a 'true friendship'. Yes I'm young in life (&lt;25). I suppose this is targeting adolescent relationships in relation to my personal experiences. It's not about constantly hanging out with your friends even when there is nothing to do it's about the effort that two people put into maintaining a relationship. If you care about someone you should make it known. Someone (especially at an adolescent age--lets say college age and younger) who only hangs out with you for activities may not be the truest of friends especially if they decline to see you outside of a specific activity group. This could be a sign of an unwillingness to progress in the relationship and you shouldn't invest in them emotionally as much as say the guy who personally messages you after finding our your grandmother died to ask if you're okay. 

example: smoking buddy may not be your best friend if they only hangout when herb is involved. 

I believe my message may have been incorrectly phrased or taken wrong.  

Edit 2: Please read edit 1 before you comment or vote. 

Edit 3: This specific LPT is only relevant to a relationship in close proximity (specifically in adolescence). Stop commenting that you found out that your true friends were the ones who you didn't talk to in years but have had made memories together that caused your lives to forever be linked in friendship. It's great that after reflection you've found your true friend(s) but its irrelevant to this post. But instead think back to when you met them, how did those memories happen? If those friends only interacted with you to do *things* would the friendship have played out as it did? Wanting to be part of your life past activities(or even in the absence of one) shows they care for you. 

Edit 4: I'd like to repurpose this a bit--start a conversation if you will. The thought behind this was to help others, specifically adolescents who are still socially developing,  distinguish the types of relationships they have. Forming and maintaining friendships can be very hard for some people and it's important to know when to invest emotionally and otherwise and when not to. As a child growing up with a social disability I wish I had guidance in this area as I basically put my all in to each relationship I made only to be let down when it didn't work out and Little me just didn't understand why. Feel free to share your stories of adolescent friendship. 

Edit 5: If you downvote (believe this is not LPT Worthy) please comment why, you obviously cared enough to downvote it. 

Edit 6: **This sub is for all walks of life**, don't bash this for age relevant tips. **As per the rules (idk if you've read them) this post is acceptable and does contribute to a meaningful discussion. A downvote on this sub suggests the previous is incorrect.** Any personal attacks on me only make yourself look foolish--and this is coming from someone probably much younger than you. Have a great day guys and I hope this has helped you with your personal relationships in some way, shape or form. 

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/306lcn/
author:NotWalterSchwartz
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1167
numComments:126
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True