title:
LPT: Get a pet ID tag and collar for your kids favorite stuffed animal

content:
I can't believe I didn't think of this sooner, it's so obvious that I'm sure it's probably been posted before. We're going out of town and my daughters beloved (and beat to death) stuffed animal is of course coming with us. Since we're going out of state I'm afraid that her stuffed baby may get left somewhere and we'll never see it again. Today while I was updating our dogs tags with our new phone numbers at one of those pet ID tag kiosks in Petsmart (they're at Petco too) when it occurred to me that this may be a good solution to potential stuffed animal loss on our trip. I bought a tiny pink collar and made a custom tag for her stuffed animal complete with our phone numbers, an email address, and the word "REWARD" on the bottom. Hope this helps save someone else from having to suffer stuffed animal loss.

Edit: To address concerns I'm seeing in comments: 

1. Giving information to Pedos - I'm not concerned for myself because this particular stuffed animal really only travels between sleeping places and doesn't go on mall trips or to schools. Worth noting if your child takes their stuffed animal literally everywhere.

2. Let your kid experience loss/life lessons - Sorry, no, not in this case. We've lost pets and have gone through that whole thing already a few times, I don't need to teach a lesson about loss with the favorite stuffed animal. Besides, I'd rather teach the lesson of planning for the worst case scenario.  

3. "For a stuffed animal - WTF" - Kids tend to get attached to that ONE stuffed animal, I'm not talking about doing this with more than one. It may seem excessive to people who don't have or don't want children, or those of you who plan on teaching their kids about loss with their toys. I put tags on my dogs so I don't see why an extra $10-$15 on one stuffed animal is excessive, but I guess we'll have to agree to disagree.

4. Putting "Reward" on the tag may indicate that you have money - This is correct, but it may be the difference between going in the mail and going in the trash.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/394fa6/
author:Vikaroo
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1264
numComments:156
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True