title:
YSK the cheapest and easiest way to get rid of ants from your home.

content:
We recently had a giant infestation of ants at our house (like, everywhere on the counters) and no matter how many traps and sprays we used they just kept coming back. Heck, we even tried spraying the colony at one point with no results. I decided to try and check online for some solutions and managed to find something that really worked. In a single night about 90% of the ants just disappeared. In a week I haven't found a single ant. This also has the addition of being 100% humane as well for anyone that is worried about that. 

Ants don't really like invading homes. It tends to be difficult, dangerous, and might only have a limited amount of food after getting discovered. The reasons ants do this is for two reasons: 1. Quick and most likely very nutritious food and 2. a very safe place from rain/predators. This method basically gives both so the ants would want nothing with your house. So, enough text, how to do it.

1. Get to the store and grab a container of sugar (a can would work best, but a bag is fine) and set of preferably biodegradable bowls.

2. Put 1 part hot water from the tap and 1 part sugar in a bowl to make a simple syrup. I found that about 100mL or 3 fl oz. works best. Edit: Make sure you stir this very well, it should have the consistency between orange juice and pancake syrup when you're done.

3. Find your colony outside if you can and put the bowl about 2-3m or 5-10 ft away.

4. Check to see if the bowl is surrounded by ants the next day. If it is, get a new bowl or move the old one another 10 ft away. If not, try pouring some more syrup around the bowl to try and let the ants get the scent.

5. After about a week, the colony should have moved far from your house and (hopefully) away from anyone else's. If you want to stop refreshing the bowl, just fill the can (if you got one) with a few rocks and place it sideways on the ground. The ants should invade it and finally leave you alone for the rest of the season.

6. Finally, relax. Realize you just peacefully moved an entire colony of ants with a minimal amount of work.

Edit: A couple comments mentioned that not all ants eat the same stuff. Some go for protein or fat so peanut butter would probably work just as well.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/3becq3/
author:Purplegill10
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:1628
numComments:392
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True