title:
Mod Post: Put down your pitchforks and be civil.

content:
I've noticed in a few highly upvoted LPT submissions many comments indicating how the sub sucks, 'who's upvoting this stuff?' and a bunch of other negative comments. Some comments even going so far to call others retarded and bash them for having zero common sense.

If you don't like it, downvote and move on. I mean, I understand the need to complain about it but it turns more into a circlejerk and ruins the discussion for those who actually like the tip and learned from it.

Enough of the hivemind pitchfork angry mentality please. If you want to raise your pitchfork, sharpen it up and hit it hard, do so with the **report button**. In doing this you'll quickly show the mods that, no no no, this shouldn't be here better than the comments will. 

I didn't think the tip was fantastic either but just because many hate it and many love it, doesn't mean it gives the mods the right to remove on personal preference. We do try and remove posts based on rule-breaking content and leave the voting to you.

Just my two cents. Be kind please...there are ways to tell someone something sucks without bashing them personally.

Also, keep in mind troll posts aren't allowed so don't try to be funny with submitting a troll-worthy /r/ShittyLifeProTips post here because you are likely to end up with a ban. I know sometimes people will do this in attempts to mock the poorly received, highly upvoted tip but it will backfire. Just a warning.

Edit: I expected people to aim their pitchforks at me, and that's fine, but just as an FYI to those of you who think that we should 'shut up and do your jobs' please realize that this isn't our jobs; we have jobs and lives outside of reddit and help volunteer our time to moderate. I think some people assume this is our FT job or something and are surprised to find out we're just like you, a redditor first and a support to a subreddit second.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/3nvnlw/
author:favoritehello
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1286
numComments:224
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True