title:
[LPT] Things you should always ask when invited to any sort of event.

content:
You should ALWAYS know these things when invited to something (use context clues!!):

1. What kind of clothes you should wear formal/casual/black tie 

2. Would you like me to bring anything (booze/food/snacks, it's up to the host if you need to bring anything since they may need help) and if you know them well enough and wish to be of help.

3. Should I come early to help set up? This does assume you GAF.

4. Are we going out to eat or will there be any money I need to bring for any particular reason (this depends on the type of event it is, mostly formal events, ask if cash is specifically required).

You'll never go wrong and it's never too LATE to ask if you don't have this information from CONTEXT CLUES. If anything you'll seem like a prudent and intelligent guest to a private party especially. 

Also, bringing a bottle unannounced will always be welcome unless otherwise told specifically drinks are taken care of and to not bring any drinks -- and even then a personal gift to the hosts could help you bond with them.

I'm sure I left something out and I'm quite sure people will fill in the gaps in the comments and I'll edit them in.

Edit: Yes some or most of these are likely questions you should ask yourself and answer them from context. No you should not ask obvious questions that make you seem like you're dense. These questions are meant for events that are not always obvious and bottled types of "come eat pizza". Yes you should be wary of MLMs but they can just lie to get you there any ways even if you ask questions about it and you should leave before they get a chance to annoy you any ways- they should not get a chance to sell you on anything. Yes a bottle is interchangeable with any kind of food or beverage (etc) that you wish to bring instead.

Edit 2: Yea, don't assume just because you brought some food to an event that you get to take it back home afterwards. Ask the host if you really want it or anything else left.

[Quick Edit 3: Don't be silly and try to ask all these questions one at a time or in order, use your brain before asking anything. Ask OPEN ENDED questions like "what kind of party/event/etc is this?" - "How chill is it going to be?" -- In life you don't just ask closed-ended questions without getting backhanded for being annoying. Yes, "sales techniques" for finding out information quickly are prudent and useful in your every day lives. Also, you usually should ask YOURSELF these questions and find out if you don't know.]

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/3o829v/
author:atheistdynasty
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:2927
numComments:660
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True