title:
LPT: Your contacts from school will be more valuable than your degree.

content:
Make sure that you socialize and get involved with others at your school. I promise that you will get more from making those contacts than the degree you earn. Those people will go on to work all over and having those contacts will lead to better opportunities for you AND them. Social networking will get you a dream job long before that 4 year degree will.

Edit 1. Wow, people are passionate about this. First let me clarify that I do think that a degree is important. BUT(and several entrepreneurs and CEO's will back this up) making a social network of people will far outpace just getting your paper and walking out into the world. Look at companies like Microsoft, Google, Facebook, etc. All were built by people who met in school and connected. I feel like too many people leave school with NO social skills at all and no contacts then wonder why they can't get a job. Also, Keep in mind that these connections can last a lifetime! So as your degree becomes less and less valuable (which happens as you age and get real experience), these connections will get more and more important. Especially for high level jobs. Sure, your experience matters, but knowing the CFO from decades ago can't hurt to land you the job.

Edit 2. This seems to have evolved into a debate about getting hired for the first job. My statement is not even about the first job. It is about a lifetime of opportunities. Decades of friendship that can turn into so many things. Some of the people around you are destined to become leaders later in life. Also, this isn't only about work or jobs. It could be anything. It could be investments. It could be a charity that they want you to be a part of. You may meet your future doctor, attorney, accountant, etc. Those bonds are important. Very important. That is my point of the post. Not to argue over semantics or settle an end all debate about the importance of education. 

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/3p82y2/
author:BennyBitBit
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:3970
numComments:1529
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True