title:
LPT - Understand the medical consequences of having yourself or an aging loved one's status as "Full Code" and talk to those who would be making that decision about your wishes.

content:
According to the Huffington Post, "full code" is a hospital designation that means to intercede if a patient's heart stops beating or if the patient stops breathing.

This can mean anything from vigorous CPR, intubating, to defibrillator use, etc. 


If you have an aging loved one who is already very frail and in poor health, "Full Code" means if they are in the hospital or a nursing home, the nurses or EMTs will preform vigorous CPR/chest compression in an attempt to revive them if they stop breathing or their heart stops. This literally means breaking their rib cages to get their blood flowing and lungs moving.


If your loved one survives and is resuscitated, they will probably suffer from multiple broken bones, massive bruising across their chest and internally within their chest cavity. The pain is substantial. Very rarely will someone of significant age fully recover from the rigors of revival.


Talk to your loved ones. Your parents, your spouse, yours kids. Talk to your doctors about the risks of resuscitation and if your body, or your parents bodies, could handle the force needed to do so. Understand that if your loved ones "crash", and you have them listed as Full Code, there is a possibility you will lose them again after they are revived because they are simply too frail and sickly to recover from that. 


EDIT:::
Thank you to everyone who has commented and added to this sensitive discussion. I'd like to add, as others have added, that when you discuss this information to follow through and get the proper paperwork for a DNR or POLST, and have that paperwork readily available. Emergency Responders are required to preform life saving measures if they do not have the proper papers saying to do otherwise.

In addition: donate your organs. Make a living will. 

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/3qyo74/
author:TheCoolAuntie
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:2687
numComments:442
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True