title:
LPT: If you are a parent, record a video message for your children even if you're perfectly healthy.

content:
I know this is a little morbid but seriously, just do it. Record a video and tell your children that you love them, tell them what about them makes you happy and smile. Tell them what kind of a person you are: your hopes, your dreams, your worries, your failings, things you find funny, things you hate. Anything.

Yes, you may be perfectly healthy but you never know what day will be your last. Worst case scenario, you die tomorrow but your children will have a final message to watch and listen to. Best case scenario, you will live for decades to come and your children and grand children will love to watch this video of a younger you talking to them 'from the past'.

Chances are, you've got a smart phone, pick it up and record something. Do it now. Don't hesitate because you want to put some thought into it or because you think you'll do it later when you have more time. Record something now and replace it or add to it later if you want. Maybe flush and leave the bathroom first if you're a normal reddit user. If you have insecurities about filming yourself, record a voice memo instead. Anything is better than nothing.

Once you've recorded one, maybe record a new one on your child's birthday so that years down the line, they'll have these little snapshots of you over the years and how you've changed.

Of course, this doesn't just have to be for your children; you could do the same for your partner, friends or parents. My perspective comes from being someone that lost both of my parents suddenly (on separate occasions) as a child. I really wish I had more recordings or messages from them; the best I have are a few old camcorder videos from holidays largely full of landscape shots. The one with the most actual talking is one where my mother is filming the construction of our outdoor pool at various stages and narrating it. It's not exactly enlightening.

I can't go back and change history, I can't retrospectively get them to record things. Maybe I *can* convince someone else to do this for their children right now though.

Edit: I'm thrilled that this has hit the front page of Reddit and I've been blown away by the responses. Something several people have suggested that is in a similar vein is to set up an email account for your children or a private blog and to send emails with your thoughts, photos and whatever every now and then to the account so that you can share it with them in the future.

I've got a huge smile on my face from the people that have said they've recorded videos or written letters to their children after reading this post. I am humbled that I could have maybe made a tiny bit of a difference. I'm trying to reply to everyone but I'm going to have to get some sleep now. :)

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/44spju/
author:Spanky2k
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:4900
numComments:848
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True