title:
LPT: When the airlines are overbooked and offer vouchers for taking a later flight, the amount of the voucher and other perks are fully negotiable.

content:
Typing this from the airport bar. I just was on an overbooked flight and they needed volunteers to take a flight a few hours later. They offered $300 initially. Then $500.  No takers (or not enough). When I was boarding I said, can you do $1,000? They scoffed and said no. Whatever didn't hurt to ask. Then 5 mins later I'm in the tunnel going to board and they catch up with me and say they can do $800.  I asked for first class and lounge access while I wait. They offered first class if it was available (which it was!) but no lounge access because they aren't allowed to. 

So I'm having beers and watching basketball for a few hours; paid for half a flight for an exotic vacation just by asking. 

*edit* Some people are saying this isn't a negotiation in the purest sense of the word given how airlines use vouchers, other travelers accepting lower voucher offers, etc. which is partly true.  But the woman on the intercom made it a point to say they were negotiable which is why I even asked in the first place.  You can definitely get food vouchers for the airport, obviously a hotel if you have to stay overnight, cab service, lounge access, etc.; just be polite and ask with a smile on your face.  Literally on the flight I got moved to (which was ALSO overbooked) I overheard a guy and his girlfriend saying they would accept a later flight and the voucher offer but asked for TWO nights in a hotel instead of one (this was Miami so they probably figured a couple more days of vacation), and the gate attendant checked with her boss and approved it.  When I asked for $1,000 there were two desk attendants who were debating it and then their supervisor overheard and shot it down.  But they were definitely considering it; they were in such a push to get the plane off the ground.  In the future, I'm going to 100% ask for a voucher increase or at the least say 'if it goes to $x, I'll do it, let me know'.  

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/4b91rl/
author:MEATWALL-FARTOPOLIS
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:5829
numComments:1031
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True