title:
LPT: Have two shampoos. Use one without sodium laureth sulfate regularly (e.g. daily), use one with sodium laureth sulfate occasionally (e.g. once per week)

content:
~~Inb4 sodium laureth (lauryl ether) sulfate is literally Hitler~~. Sodium laureth sulfate (SLS) is a good surfactant, just like many of the other detergents you use daily like hand soap and laundry detergent. It foams up very well which increases the surface area for the detergent to work and, as a result, does a very good job of stripping oils off of surfaces. 

Daily SLS use is probably not good for your hair. It may lead to drying and breakage regardless of what the marketing on the bottle tells you. Instead, find a shampoo that doesn't have SLS and use that daily. This may leave some buildup/oil in your throughout the week, but your hair needs a bit of that shit. Nature's conditioner. Using SLS will then strip your hair leaving it very clean.  

Of course, not everyone shampoos daily, and may have their own routine. I do shampoo daily, because I have very oily hair/skin/scalp and I look like a homeless person if I don't, which is probably a result of shampooing daily. And the cycle continues. The bottom (guide)line is try not to use a shampoo with SLS more than once per week. 

Also, this may be obvious but, if you have long hair, don't shampoo down to the tips. Just shampoo the scalp and hair close to the scalp. 

Disclaimer: I'm just a man with long hair who figured some of this out for myself recently and thought I would share.

Edit: /u/Roupert rightly pointed out that this depends a lot on what your current routine is and your hairstyle. I meant this as a general tip for anyone who isn't really thinking about this stuff. However, you should care for your hair/skin and take a closer look at what will work best for you, maybe by checking out some related subreddits. 

Also, the first sentence was a joke that maybe didn't go over well. Some people think sulfates will be the downfall of humanity. I do not.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/4errpx/
author:[deleted]
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:2225
numComments:529
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True