title:
LPT: Periodically hand write a few nice letters to your loved ones and leave them somewhere discoverable. If anything ever happens to you it will bring them some solace.

content:
Maybe this is more of a "Death Pro Tip" but...

I just had a birthday and randomly recieved a birthday card from my grandmother who abruptly passed away last year.  

It would seem she had completed some correspondence ahead of time, an my aunt had found it and mailed them to various people at her descretion.

The card had a nice message and included a crisp $2 bill (something she's done for as long as I can rememeber).  I had kept it together at her funeral, but this actually choked me up for second once I realized what is was. It was very pleasant surprise.


------------------------- 

EDIT


1. It's been stated and clearly reiterated this might not be a good idea if there is a potential breakup in the future, or your loved one suffers from neurosis or depression.

2. Watch your wording, it is possible to write a nice letter without it sounding like you need suicide watch.  But if you do - keep in mind you'll need to explain if someone finds a "goodbye letter."

3. No, I didn't get this from a movie.  I am movie guy,  but I go out of my way to avoid chick flicks and rom-coms.

----------------------------------

EDIT 2


4. Apparently there is a service Google offers for this. After so much time of inactivity it will share your login information and a message with someone.

5. If your that worried about letters being found too early, give them to someone to hold on to. Lawyers and estate executives are also available for a fee, if you don't trust friends and family.

6.  A lot of people are commenting that this is morbid, narcissistic,  and/or emotionally traumatic for the reciever. It depends on the person, and your relationship with them. It is not the same for everyone, but some people would get the enjoyment out of it. You don't even need to write anything profound or a goodbye message.

---------- 

EDIT 3


Clearly, If you've been dating someone for a couple weeks or have a rocky relationship this might not be for them - Parents, kids, friends, etc might be a little more receptive than an ex.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/4roaem/
author:Pirateer
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:3321
numComments:547
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True