title:
LPT: Speak less, listen more, and do not offer someone advice unless they specifically ask for it.

content:
I will be 62-years-old in a couple of months. The irony here is that I am violating my own rule by posting this LPT. But, I feel justified in doing so because I definitely had to learn this the hard way. And, my sincere hope is that I may influence someone to change their thinking at a much earlier age than I did. So, I am speaking primarily to young people, but the tip equally applies to everyone.

When I was younger, I was such an asshole. A real know-it-all. And, believe me, it got me in trouble constantly. The older I get, the more I realize I don't know everything. But, I still have to remind myself every day to do this. Because, if I don't, I can easily slip back into old habits.

A few years ago, I went through some major life changes. My wife and I separated, I was laid off from a six-figure position in the Information Technology field, and I experienced an extended period of unemployment. I lost everything. As a result, I have done a lot of thinking. Getting older does that to a lot of people. I just wish I had done it a lot sooner.

Tip 1 - Speak less, and listen more. Easier said than done. It seems to be in our nature to want to show everyone how intelligent and wise we are. We speak to show off our infinite knowledge, and then when the other person is talking, we think about what we're going to say next. You will be amazed, however, at how appreciative people are when you really listen to what they have to say.

And, then, the related Tip 2 - Do not offer someone advice unless they specifically ask for it. This the really hard part. Again, we are so eager to show everyone what great advice we can give. But, here is the problem in a nutshell.

First, if we're not really listening to what the other person has to say, how can we offer good advice? We may well be missing the point of what they are saying, and end up making ourselves look foolish.

Second, I cannot tell you how many times I just needed to vent to someone after a very tough day. And, then the other person goes off on this rant about how I could have done things in a better way. Maybe I already know that. Maybe I just need to vent, and I am not looking for advice. Now you have only succeeded in pissing me off!

So, I hope you can see my point. And, the really great thing is, if you follow this "advice," people will gain a new respect for you as a human being.


url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/4xpejk/
author:BillyPilgrimSFW
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1880
numComments:182
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True