title:
LPT: keep an extra set of clothes and essentials in your car.

content:
Keep a small tote with a few essentials in it in the trunk of my car for emergencies.

I keep:

An extra set of clothes (socks, shorts, cheap flipflops, sweatpants, shirt, sweatshirt, underwear, and a hat)

Insulated leather gloves

Flashlight (batteries not inside to prevent draining/corrosion)

Deoderant

Towel

Hand sanitizer

A deck of cards

Lighter

Small cheap pocket knife

Paracord

I can't even tell you how many times this has been a total lifesaver for me or others. Went hiking and your socks are soaked? put on some dry ones. Go on a road trip and forgot deoderant? Boom, no problem. Went fishing and someone fell in the water? They have dry clothes and you are their hero. 

The tote will be shockingly useful in a lot of surprising ways, too. One time someone hit my car, knocking my bumper half off. Luckily I had rope to tie it up and get it home. Another time I was drinking at a friends' and we all decided to go swimming. I got the gym shorts out of my car and didn't have to go swimming in my jeans/naked. I also had a towel to dry off with.

My tote is pretty small (14x10x10 or so) but has had a solution of most of the problems i've ran into. Everything is pretty cheap and well worth the time to put it together. Does anyone else do anything similar or keep other things in their trunk? (A small first aid kit is also great to have, but I keep that separately)

edit: Easier to read formatting

edit edit: Wow I can't believe the response! A couple of things from the comments: A lot of people have mentioned melting deoderant. Granted, I live in a colder climate (northern Michigan) but the Old Spice Pure Sport I have has been in my trunk for years and hasn't shown any sign of melting. Water is also a great thing to have, but be aware that in colder climates it might freeze! Water and deoderant are both items to have, but definitely tweak your list of supplies for whatever climate you live in.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/51sfhn/
author:elomenopi
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:5490
numComments:1491
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True