title:
LPT: Corporations exist to make money(for other people). HR is not your friend, and its not a "family"

content:
I bring this up as someone who has been a Software Engineer for about 18 years now. I have been a "corporate whore" in the sense that I have jumped ship every 1-2 years in my career, except for one position where I was there for 4 years. 

Having been to a lot of corporations, it became apparent to me early on in my career that HR is more about protecting the corporation, and mitigating the risks of lawsuits as apposed to protecting the interests of the employee.

In leaked Target/Walmart videos that attempted to paint labor unions as horrible, they used phrases like "open door policy" (referring to an employee being able to discuss anything with a manager/employer, which would be removed if big bad labor unions got in the way), or "we are a family."

In no uncertain terms should you view your employer as family. In most cases you are an expense, and it really is a race to the bottom; how little can they do for you in return for you working for them and generating revenue/value.

A Job/Career is simply an agreement between what you think your value is, and what the corporation feels you are worth as an expense. The more confident you are in yourself, and the more you look for other opportunities, the better off you will be. 

Working extra hours above 40 hours a week, if you are salaried anyway, is something we all do/did, and its only when you are older and wiser that you realize that extra time is not worth the extra 1% bump in your salary. Shopping around for other companies can and do bump you 5-20% depending on role/responsibilities. Doing so constantly is the best way to maximize your income in the long run.

That being said, there are exceptions to the rule. The company I was at for 4 years contributed 50% match to my 401k, up to the federal limit. So if I put in 16k, they would match 8k, with a 4 year vesting period. Situations like that are useful for retirement. 

Before the 1970's, it was considered good practice to reinvest in your workforce, provide them with equity/pensions as a way to retain people. As automation/technological revolutions occurred, the value of each individual lessened. Additionally, during the 1970's, a new train of though started being taught in business schools that quarter over quarter profits for shareholders were more important than anything else. As a result, "trim the fat" became a mantra that future executives would hold dear, as well as be compensated against.

Had a good quarter? Awesome. Had a bad one? Perhaps we should replace you.

As an employee, your goal should be to gain as much as you can. Treat your employer with respect, but understand you are an expense. The days of loyalty are something corporations and HR love to talk about, but it seems to be a one way street. Don't settle for less than what you are worth. 

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/53uzmj/
author:Termy56
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:6085
numComments:1834
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True