title:
LPT: View your time as an investment, and pay attention to what gives you the greatest return

content:
Think of how stingy you are with your money: if someone on the street asks for $10, you're not giving it to them. There's no way you're giving a 30% tip for a normal dining experience. And so on. 

And yet so many of us just waste ungodly amounts of our time. We throw it away, every day. I know I do unless I'm careful. What helps me to not waste time is to see it as an investment, and to keep track of the returns I get for my investment. 

This approach has led me to recognize that some things offer incredible immediate return on investment: a night spent learning a new song on my preferred instruments, for example, gives me a lifetime of being able to play that song. That's an incredible return. Other investments are more like low-interest, high security, long-term investments: going to the gym, eating right, etc. Some, like reading good books, are kind of a combination of both. 

But many activities are worthless from an investment perspective: whatever benefit they seem to give doesn't last any longer than the activity itself. Reddit is a great example: I can get super-invested in a Reddit conversation, but at the end, the second I shut down my computer, I've gained nothing in return. It gives me absolutely nothing of value. I've invested my time into junk. 

Edit: Some obvious things here. First of all, what's valuable and not is ultimately your own personal judgement. If you feel that your time spent on reddit helps you build the life that you want, then by all means, fill your boots. It doesn't build the life that I want, though - and yes, I'm aware that that seems hypocritical, but the fact is that I am highly aware that I'm procrastinating right now, and that I'll loathe my time spent on reddit when I lay my pretty head down to sleep tonight. 

EDIT: SORRY I CRITICIZED REDDIT OMG. But for real, maybe you guys are all just a hell of a lot more disciplined on here than I am. You come for salient information, trenchant and high-minded interactions with others, and then you sign out in a crisp and efficient manner. Not I. Reddit is one of my boogeymen, so feel free to substitute your own time-waster.

Final edit: holy smokes, if I would have known this was going to blow up, I would have taken more than 45 seconds to write it and would have made some things a bit clearer. There's some confusion or perhaps defensiveness about the point I was trying to make. First of all, the examples that I used were all solitary pursuits, but that was just random - for instance, for myself, I don't think that there's a better investment of my time than playing music with my friends, or going on trips with friends and family. Those memories last a lifetime. Absolutely worth every second - and dollar. Secondly, I definitely don't want to imply that time invested in experiences is a waste - that's the exact opposite of what I'm trying to say. Experiences, rather than material things, are what I've chased for most of my adult life. 

Really, this never should have blown up because it's not profound in the least. We all know that wasting time leads to unhappiness. All I was trying to say is that one strategy that has helped me to avoid wasting time is to see time spent on something as an investment, and to question what return on it I'm getting. Investing my time in learning a new skill, being a good husband and father, making new memories with friends and family - those investments will yield a good life. Other investments won't - eating junk food late at night on Reddit, for example. And for me, yes, Reddit is a serious time sink - something that I'm trying to deal with. 

Lastly, I'd push back a tiny little bit against people saying that time spent enjoying yourself isn't wasted. Mostly, I agree, but sometimes, avoidance takes the form of enjoyment: if there's something that I know I need to do, and I watch Netflix instead, hell yeah I enjoy myself during that time. Doesn't mean that it wasn't a shitty investment of time, though. So, don't confuse avoidance/escapism with true enjoyment.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/5hsx5d/
author:unusedmonitor2
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:23282
numComments:1068
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True