title:
LPT: How to Stop Procrastinating

content:
If you procrastinate much as I do, you probably are familiar with the crippling feelings of stress and anxiety that go along with it.  I recently had a revelation about myself, these feelings, and why I procrastinate:


1). I know that I am very capable when I actually apply myself.  I’ve completed many projects in the past, and in fact, if I add up the hours I’ve spent *actually working* on those projects, I know I could have completed most of them well ahead of schedule.  Truly, the greatest obstacle I've faced on any project has been my own lack of time management.  Therefore, the anxiety I feel when thinking about a project doesn't come from the fear that I’m not *capable*; it comes from the fear that *I will fuck myself over by continuing to procrastinate*.  


2). When I am procrastinating, I don’t even think about the task I’m avoiding, and thereby I avoid all the negative emotions that go along with it.  It’s only when I finally sit down to work on a project that I have to think about it, and only then do I feel the weight of all that stress, worry, and shame.  Because I only experience task-related anxiety when I am actively working on a project, *I have literally been conditioning myself to avoid working on my projects*.  Fucking Psych 101.


Taking these two things together, I have reached the conclusion that ultimately, *I procrastinate to avoid worrying about the fact that I procrastinate.*  What the fuck, brain?!?! 


Does that sound like you too?  Good, because I don't want to be the only asshole dealing with this bullshit.


So, what can we all do about this conundrum?  I'm just starting to work this out, but I think it starts with retraining your brain.  


When you sit down to work and you have to come to grips with all the work ahead, all the time you’ve wasted, that looming deadline, and you feel the panic starts to rise up...  Tell yourself, “Stop it.  Calm the fuck down.  *Now* is not the time when I should be worrying.  *Now* is the time when I should be fucking high-fiving myself.  This shit that I’m doing right now is *how I am going to get this motherfucker done.*  And even though I know that what I’m about to do is just a tiny fraction of the project, I understand that by simply continuing on *just like this* and getting a little bit done at a time, I *will* achieve my goal.  With time to fucking *spare*.  That's how it has always worked, and that's how it shall continue to work”  


You have to give yourself a pat on the back when you sit down to work instead of letting yourself choke on the stress.  Let your anxiety go because you know that you are actively, in that very moment, overcoming its source.   Feel the sense of accomplishment that you are entitled to for simply sitting down and planning your next steps.  Realize that *this* is what completing a project actually feels like--just staying on task for a few minutes or an hour at a time.  Make it a ritual, and schedule times throughout the day to "get started again".  


TLDR; Don’t let the fear of fear itself fool you into thinking you can’t get the job done.  



*Bonus tip:* You are going to need outside help at some point.  If you’re like me, you might let that stall your progress.  Maybe it’s a bit of social anxiety or maybe it’s embarrassment, but I always feel an initial aversion to asking someone else for assistance or information.  It’s bullshit.  No big project gets completed without outside help, whether that’s from a product support helpdesk, a coworker, a boss, or even a client.  Don’t let “not wanting to bother someone else” become your excuse.  Don’t deceive yourself into thinking it’s better for you to waste hours trying to figure something out on your own when a single phone call or email could do the job.  Just pick up the phone and keep the ball rolling.


Okay, now back to the project I’ve been avoiding...

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/5jf3qw/
author:wabawanga
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:7845
numComments:503
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True