title:
LPT: If you are planning a New Year's resolution, make a calendar of daily goals

content:
This LPT has single-handedly changed my entire life's trajectory. When I first started doing this in February of this year, here is where I was at: 1) just dumped by a girlfriend I really liked, 2) 30 pounds overweight, 3) on the brink of being fired from my job, 4) addicted to porn, and 5) still smoking cigarettes after way too many years. Overall my life was still OK, but I was starting to slip and I could feel the walls closing in.

Fast-forward to the present day. I am now in a very exciting new relationship with a smoking hot girl that I get along with way better than I ever did with my old girlfriend. No longer do I watch porn for hours on end each day (now it's maybe twice a week). Through diet and exercise I've shed all my excess weight and got ripped. With this new dedication to health, I hardly have any cravings for cigarettes and smoke perhaps two a month just because I actually want to. And my job? I got two raises to go from $45k a year to $75k, received a promotion to a senior-level position, and now have a consulting side-gig that gives me an additional $600 a month.

Let me preface what I'm going to tell about how I accomplished this by first saying that this method is probably not for everyone, and I imagine it takes someone with a specific kind of mindset to derive the full benefit. That being said, I believe that most people can get something out of what I have to say here, so even if you don't think this is for you I hope you can walk away with something useful from this LPT. I'm not trying to sell anything, and at most all I'll be receiving out of this is some of that sweet, sweet karma. Ultimately, I'm writing this LPT because this year has been fucking awesome for me and I feel the need to give back in some way.

Buy a calendar, this is the most important thing. This calendar is your new best friend and your life is in its hands. From now on, you give yourself permission to not a give a singular fuck about anything else besides this calendar. Every day you will have daily goals written on the calendar, and the only thing you care about now is completing those goals and drawing an "X" on the calendar for that day.

I found this mindset to be extremely effective because it broke down all of the things I wanted to do into one simple goal: earn the X. I believe that we as people are hesitant to enact massive life changes because all of the actions needed to elevate one's life can become overwhelming, and we suffer from paralysis by analysis. By only caring about being able to earn your X for the day, you completely avoid feeling overwhelmed by everything you need to do. You really need to adopt a one day at a time mentality in order for this to work.

So, now you need to think of just one action that, if done at least five days a week, you know without a doubt will make your life better after one year. Just pick one. Could be setting a daily calorie limit, going to the gym after work, initiating a conversation with one stranger a day, etc. For now, just choose one and write that down on your calendar for the first three weeks. Remember, earning your X on the calendar is now your key to happiness and accomplishment. Are you seriously telling me that you can't do one simple fucking thing a day that, if done consistently, will make your life significantly better? How could you do anything else? You know this is the key to a richer life, so stop making excuses and do it. 

Part of the reason I advocate for just one goal at first is because the power of the calendar is realized over time. Once you have crossed off three week's worth of days on the calendar, you begin to build momentum and earning your X begins to take on a life of its own. It is commonly said that it only takes about three weeks to establish a habit, and from everything I've experienced that seems about right. But by doing this method, you are really establishing not one habit, but two: 1) whatever goal you committed to on the calendar and 2) being able to cross off that goal each day. Earning your X for the day is about to become the most powerful addiction you've ever had.

After three weeks (or whatever time period you think is realistic for you), add another goal to your calendar, continuing this basic pattern for the rest of the year. In this way you will begin to snowball change in your life, but in a way that is not too overwhelming. Because you only have a few goals early on, you greatly increase your likelihood to accomplish your goals and therefore have a much higher chance of becoming addicted to earning your X. By the time you begin to have a lot of responsibilities each day, your addiction to crossing off your goals each day should give you more than enough reinforcement to press on. 

In my personal experience, there were actually surprisingly few times where I was even tempted to deviate from the calendar. This was due in large part to my next point: make sure you have 1-2 "cheat" days each week. Let's say your goal is to quit smoking cigarettes. Set you mind to not smoking cigarettes five days a week, but smoke as much as you want the other two days. Since there is a light at the end of the tunnel you won't feel as much pressure, and your cravings will naturally subside over time as you adopt a new lifestyle. Regular breaks are important, and they greatly help to ease the psychological discomfort of large amounts of change. I can say this from personal experience, but there is also research that indicates the same: http://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2016/04/its-my-cheat-day/478881/

If you take away anything from this post at all, I hope it's the understanding that this is a marathon, not a sprint. To that end, the most important concept here is understanding the difference between motivation and dedication. People become motivated when they should be dedicated, and vice versa, all the time. Strictly speaking, motivation is required when you need a surge of emotional energy, and therefore should only be drawn upon when you need to do something once. Signing up for the gym should be a motivational experience, while becoming dedicated to signing up for the gym would conversely be profoundly dumb and costly. 

What you need to realize is that being motivated when you should be dedicated is every bit as detrimental and stupid as the above example.

If you use motivation to go to the gym every day, do you know what will happen? You will create an emotional connection to going to the gym (because motivation is inherently emotional), and your likelihood of actually going to the gym will wax and wane with the mood you are in each day. Do not ever motivate yourself to go to the gym, dedicate yourself to doing it. Dedication relies on the absence of emotion, and as such is a logical choice. You are now choosing to go to the gym because you know it is what is best, and you will not attach any emotions to it. This is a trap many people get in. They think that attaching positive emotions to going to the gym is a good thing, but in the long run it will usually work against them. The same idea applies to anything that requires consistent action over a long time period, i.e. dedication.




I could keep going on and on about this all day long, but I think I'll stop here. Everything I've written is more than enough for you to unlock your potential, it really is that simple. I could wrap this post up by offering some inspiring words to really get you going, but the truth is that this is all about dedication. You really have to understand that by dedicating yourself to the calendar you are ensuring that your life will be magnitudes better in one year. It will be hard at first because you will see almost no benefit in the first three months (I certainly didn't). Keep going. This is not about instant gratification, it's about fundamental life change. I promise you that if you really take care to understand the basic concepts and mentalities I have described in this post, you will succeed. If you've taken the time to read this far, chances are you are more likely to accomplish your goals than most, and I wish you the best of luck on your journey.


url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/5kurks/
author:decimated_napkin
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1460
numComments:62
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True