title:
LPT: When delivering news to family about a frightening event, always lead with the condition of the subject instead of the events that transpired.

content:
At 12:30am last night I got a call about my brother. The woman on the line was the mother of a friend he had been with that night. She started the conversation by saying "I've been trying to reach your parents for about a half hour. This will be difficult to hear but your brother was staying at a cabin with the boys last night and he had a psychotic episode of sorts. He hit one of his friends a few times, he was screaming and crying, and there's some severe property damage as well."

Nowhere in that opener did I know for sure that he was safe. My heart just fucking took off and I was trying to stay calm but I had to ask "is he okay?" Like three or four times before she told me "it was really serious, but the police are there now and he's safely restrained." There was a good 30 seconds where I was trying to figure out how to cope with my brother being dead or severely injured when neither of those things were even the case to begin with.

I can elaborate on the situation in the comments if asked, but the point of this LPT is that if she had said "your brother and everyone else is safe and relatively unharmed, but you need to know that something happened," I would have been calmer and less panicked in my responses (and panicked responses aren't generally as productive) and she could have spared me a lot of uncertainty and fear, which were incredibly intense, regardless of how briefly I experienced them.

If the news is bad news, it's still best to get that out of the way to eliminate the uncertainty and (as sad as this sounds) quell the inevitable hope that everything is okay. After leading with the condition, the conversation will naturally transition into explaining what happened anyway.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/5pckh8/
author:Moosemaster21
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:7982
numComments:528
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True