title:
LPT: A goal towards a tidier home is not through periodic 'binge cleaning' but by keeping the house clean through small, everyday tasks.

content:
To have a tidy, livable house that is always ready for unexpected visitors, you should focus on small tasks that keep your house clean everyday.

For example: If you pick up a book or a magazine up or play a board game, put it back after use.

If you use a blanket, fold it up after you get up. Anything that is displaced when in use - even a pencil or a remote.

Instead of piling dishes in the sink, try to wash your cup or plate immediately after you use it. This will leave the sink free and you will only need to wash the larger cooking dishes after you're done cooking. 
[EXTRA PROTIP: if you have something on the kitchen counter, put it where it belongs (even in the sink) so that your counter is always clear. Even if your sink is piled up with large dishes but you have clean counters, it's still a better look than a tidy sink surrounded by dirty counters.]

What this leaves is a tidier, clutter free home which will only require mostly vaccuming, dusting, and/or mopping. When unexpected visitors arrive, you don't have to scramble.

I never have to do much in my room. My closet is a bit tougher to maintain but the rest of the things are always tidy and in their place. I have siblings who keep their rooms messy and then they binge clean later. It works for them but I don't think thats an efficient method.

Of course its harder when there are more people in the house, but if you encourage as many people as you can then the clutter will reduce.

EDIT: Massive response, thanks! The point is to do small tasks everyday so that it 1) doesn't buildup 2) helps you maintain a habit of cleanliness where you naturally clean something the moment you see it 3) makes your home's default setting as 'clean' :) 

Also, if your house is massively cluttered, then it's a good idea to do a binge clean first and then maintain it by doing small chores everyday. It's said that if you do something for long enough, say 40 days, it becomes a habit. 
EDIT 2: When you rely on binge cleaning, your mindset is that you don't want to do it now because you can do it later. This makes you less likely to clean as you go. Whats the point when you can do it later? So the best way is to binge clean once and maintain it by cleaning after yourself.
Also i missed a word in the title, sorry!




url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/5qaxaf/
author:chuckitaway007
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:28156
numComments:1774
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True