title:
LPT: Charge a small "adoption fee" to prevent snake owners from using your free puppies or kittens as food.

content:
I have a coworker who routinely looks at online advertisements for free puppies, kittens, or bunnies. She will pretend to be getting the animal for her children, but will really take it home and feed it to her reticulated python. She admitted that she won't pay over 10$ to feed the snake. Charging a small adoption fee of $15 or $20 will deter her and other like minded individuals from dishonestly taking the animals for a food source. 

Note: I understand that snakes are animals too, and need to eat. I'm not bashing on snakes or snake owners. I merely take issue with the dishonest means by which this is happening. In some examples that she shared with me, the previous owners are calling and texting to check in on the animals, so she lies to them. If these people care enough to check up on the animal, they most likely would not have given the animals away if the true intent were known. Sketchy. 

Edit: Wow, this ended up being a really controversial topic. For the record, this is a true story. This woman is emotionally unstable, and quite frankly, doesn't have the mental agility to pull off a prank on this level as some have suggested. I do agree with many of you who have pointed out the possible warning signs of a sociopath, and I will definitely be reporting her. Thank you to all those who PM'd me resources and contact information. 

Also, I had never considered the concept of the bait dogs/fighting dogs and I found that to be enlightening as well.  As some have mentioned, the dog fighting rings may be the bigger more prominent threat. There were many comments that mentioned the fee really doesn't solve the problem, and that solid interviewing and vetting of new owners is a better strategy. I do not disagree. The argument of spaying/neutering pets was also made, and again, I do not disagree. The purpose of this post was not to spark ethical debate about the food chain, or which type of animals should be labeled "food" vs. "pets". Nor was the purpose of this post to vilify snakes or their responsible owners. This story would have read the same, even if the animal she owned was a Saltwater Crocodile. 

My goal in sharing this post was to raise awareness that there are sketchy people out there who are dishonest in their dealings, and who may not have your pet's best interest at heart. So, whether charging a fee, or conducting more extensive interviews, or spaying/neutering, we can all be a little more responsible with the animals we value, to make sure that they do not needlessly suffer. Hence the LPT. 

#Iknowthatallsnakeownersarenotbad  #someofmybestfriendsaresnakes  #trollscandieinafire

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/5y0t9s/
author:Atomboy5757
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:24842
numComments:2720
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True