title:
LPT: If you have an elderly loved one, encourage your family to walk with them daily.

content:
I work in guardianship, and it is often my job to step in and see that elderly people have their needs taken care of when they no longer have family who are able or willing to take care of them. One thing that I see constantly in my line of work is elderly people sitting down in a wheelchair and never getting back up. Sometimes this happens for reasons out of our control, like the person is a fall risk or has fallen and broken something and needs to recover and doesn't get the proper Physical Therapy that they need. Other times it is more avoidable; the elderly person simply has no one to accompany them on a walk, spends all day sitting in their chair, and eventually loses the strength to be able to walk by themselves. 

Watching someone go from walking to being in a wheelchair all of the time usually results in one thing: their overall health rapidly diminishes. For example I have one gentleman who refused physical therapy and refused to walk after an injury. This gentleman went from being a spry 50 year old to looking like he was 80 years old in a matter of six months. It is also not uncommon to see people sit down in a wheelchair for good, and ultimately go to hospice within a year. 

If you have somebody that you love that is aging, encourage them to walk if they can, take them places even if it's a burden, walk with them, hire a companion to walk with them, encourage your family to help them stay active. In my experience there is one thing that people who make it into their seventies and eighties and beyond have in common, and that is that they keep moving.

Edit: Thanks for the gold!  Elder affairs are something I'm really passionate about, so if anyone else wants to give, find your local Public Guardianship office and make a donation!  These offices are state funded and often rely on grants, and they work to assure that people that are unable to make decisions for themselves, mostly elderly people, are well taken care of and get the services they need. 

If that's too much work, there's always [Meals on Wheels](https://www.mowaa.org/donate), who do an extremely incredible service for elderly people all over the US!

Edit 2:  Just wanted to point out, because I'm seeing a lot of this:  Elderly people can be a fall risk, and a fall could dramatically alter their health at an older age.  Don't take people who cannot walk well out for a walk.  Some time on a recumbent bike on the lowest setting, heck, even sitting in the chair and raising and lowering their legs could help immensely as a start.  **If you have a loved one who needs help getting back on their feet, look for physical therapists to work with them, don't try to do it yourself if you are untrained.**


url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/690rvb/
author:TheL0nePonderer
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:13707
numComments:330
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True