title:
LPT, paying for an home alarm monitoring service is a waste of money

content:
Ive been investigating residential burglaries for over 10 years. Myself and every other cop I know does NOT pay for a burglar alarm monitoring service. Why you ask? Because most burglars are in and out in under 5 minutes. The alarm company has to call the house, then after they dont get an answer, they call the police. Then the dispatch center has to get the details, set up the call, and dispatch an officer. The quickest I have ever seen this process is about 8-10 minutes from the door being breached to an officer on scene. 

If you want to make your house more secure, you can do a few things that burglars notice. a very large dog bowl at the front and back doors gets noticed, even if you dont have a dog. Also burglars avoid detection at all costs. Very obvious camera placement is a very good deterrent. Also wifi doorbells that have two way communication work well. There are many more, but alarm monitoring is a waste of money. 

Edit*** Since people have asked me what is a good set up for home security without paying a monthly fee....I am a big fan of smart home technology....I specifically go with smartthings. I can trigger lights based on motion sensors, I have wifi enabled cameras that I can access on my smartphone that can trigger lights and alert my phone. I still have an alarm system in my home, I just dont pay to have it monitored. Everything I listed does not have a monthly fee. Basically I am the monitoring service for my home, and im much quicker than a dispatcher calling another dispatcher. 
****edit 2***well I leave for a few hours and come back to the front page and gold, thank you random guilders...seems like people are interested in these kinds of tips from an actual law enforcement officer, I'll try and think of some more. Also yes I'm aware of the "a" and "an" rule, it was a typo lol

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/6989f0/
author:Detective_IRL
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:18132
numComments:1618
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True