title:
LPT: LPT: To become a productive person, make a detailed master to-do list as well as daily to-do lists that incorporate a reasonable amount of tasks from the master list. Accomplish the tasks deliberately, making room for breaks.

content:
I see a lot of comments on Reddit about how to be more productive, how to get one’s life together, how to stop procrastinating, and so on.  I tend to be a very productive person. Here’s how I do it:

First, make a master list of every single thing you need to do – from the smallest items (wash the dishes, call the dentist), to the medium items (write English paper), to the big items (get a job).  Next to each item, write down how much time you estimate it will take to accomplish the task (5 minutes, 15 hours, 3 months), as well as your deadline for accomplishing the task.  Looking at your deadlines, put an asterisk next to the tasks that need to be accomplished in the next week.

Now make a separate list of the things that you love to do that get in the way of you accomplishing what you want to accomplish – video games, Reddit, whatever.  These are your rewards to yourself when you have done a good job.

Now make a list for tomorrow.  On this list should be some items that require little time and some items that require lots of time.  It should include some items that need to be accomplished immediately and some items that are long-term.  It should include some items that you don’t mind working on and some items that you dread like the plague.  Try to keep this daily list to 5 to 7 items.

Re-order the list to put the thing you are most dreading at the top, and put all the items in that order.  The item you are most looking forward to should be at the end of the list.

Next to each item, put how much time you want to spend on that item tomorrow.  For a task that will eventually take 15 hours, maybe devote 1 hour to it today.  For a task that will take 5 minutes, try to accomplish it today.  

Analyze yourself.  Are you most productive in the morning or most productive in the evening?  Figure out what time tomorrow you want to start working on your list – a time when your brain is at its peak and you are most likely to be productive.

Tomorrow, when you wake up, remind yourself what time you are going to start your list.  Be thinking about your list before you start it, getting revved up emotionally to tackle it.  An hour before you are set to start on your list, eat a meal.  Don’t stuff yourself so much that you’re sleepy.  While you’re eating, think about your list.

At the allotted time, do item number one, the hardest item, on your list.  Focus intently to get it accomplished.  When you are done, or in the middle of it if necessary, take a 10-minute break by walking around your room, going to the bathroom, eating a quick snack, sending a quick text, petting the dog.  Do not get involved in any activity that will take a lot of time and interfere with your productivity momentum.  After a short break, tackle the second item on your list.  Every time you accomplish an item, cross the item off your list, congratulate yourself, and take a short 10-minute break.  It’s important while you’re in productivity-mode to not get side-tracked with long breaks or doing things that get in the way of your productivity.  Try to focus on your list for 3 hours.  

Then take an hour-long break.  Eat a meal, talk to a friend, go for a walk.  Clear your head.  But still don’t get dragged into the things that really stop you from being productive, unless you have the ability to keep it to about 15 minutes.  You still want to accomplish things after this break.

Now dig back into your list for 2 more hours.  If you need to do things out of order, or spend a different amount of time on things, that’s okay.  Do as much as you can until your brain is fried and you can’t do another thing.

Now reward yourself.  You earned it.  Spend time doing nothing but the things that you love.  Stop thinking about lists and tasks, other than to allow yourself to feel good about what you accomplished today.

After you’ve rewarded yourself, before you go to bed, take some time to look at your master list and today’s list.  Make any changes you need to make to the master list, and pat yourself on the back again for everything that you accomplished on today’s list.  Then make a list for tomorrow.

Some daily lists will require 3 hours of effort from you; others may require 8 hours.  Try to be realistic about how much time you commit to your list and balance it with time to reward yourself and enjoy life.  Remember, all work and no play, etc.

This system has worked for me for many years.  I realize it won’t work for everyone, but I’m sharing just in case it might help someone else.  Thanks.


url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/69z9fq/
author:getalonglittledog
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1206
numComments:56
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True