title:
LPT: Caring what other people think about you is just part of being young. The sooner you can learn to let go of your attachment to other people's validation, the sooner you begin to live your real life before retirement.

content:
As a shy individual who spends a lot of my time beating myself up, the number one thing I hear from people in their 50's if I tell them this about myself is this: "you remind me of a younger me". 

Point being, caring what others think is just sort of programmed into the minds of the average young person. But nobody really cares what others think about them by the time they reach their 50's. They just don't. They've lived enough life to see that it literally serves NO point. But they're the same person. We are so attached to it that we feel like validation from our peers is literally essential to survival. But it is not, in any way, whatsoever. So many of the older people I talk to just say they feel the exact same as they did when they were in their prime, just now they are in a 50+ year old body.

So, for the love of God, stop caring what others think of you, find something you love, put the horse blinders on, and just do the shit out of what makes you happy. There is absolutely no reason, whatsoever, that you need to care about how other people are perceiving you. It is only causing you unnecessary stress, at which nothing can be gained, even if you think you're doing everything right to keep others happy. Losing battle.

Maybe your life has become so unconsciously centered around winning other people's validation, that you don't even know what I'm talking about. You have a following, and that keeps you going. But you don't really know yourself that well. You're going to be addicted to tangible, destructive things when you get older: gambling, smoking, drinking, etc. because you can't get anybody to care about what you're doing anymore. Because you're old now, and nobody really cares about what you're doing or who you are, minus maybe your immediate family, if you have any (I know that was a harsh sentence but the right people will know what I'm trying to get at). You're one of the type of person that seriously needs help before it's too late. What you may think is socialization and healthy conversation with others about your life, achievements, and why you're definitely going to heaven is just your brain subconsciously trying to get a fix of self-validation off the person: "I'm going to make sure this person knows how amazing I am and then breathe a sigh of relief " like you just stuck a needle in your vein.

Point in summary: Just about everyone who gets past the age of 50 stops caring what others think about them because they finally see that it serves absolutely no purpose. So, if you're young, take their advice. Get the ball rolling early. It's easier said than done, but with a bit of courage, you can make your path by walking. We're all made of the same thing. So trying to keep everybody happy and constantly gaining reassurance that you're okay and everybody likes you is an addictive activity that serves zero purpose. The sooner you can legitimately stop caring what others think about you and just listen to yourself and trust yourself and your true endeavors, the sooner you have eliminated a toxic addiction from your body that will have bad long-term effects.



Edit: This was posted due to an epiphany I had recently. I should have specified that this post was meant to be directed to the people out there also like me who have done so much caring about what people think that we're sick and tired of beating ourselves up and having a gratuitous, illogical and harmful amount of self-doubt. I didn't say it was easy, but through some epiphanies, I have experienced true freedom from my form of this mental prison before, and from what it felt like, it's worth it to work towards feeling this way as much as possible as early as you can in life. Just remember to treat others how you'd like to be treated, basically.

Also, it sounds like a lot of you who disagree don't have the anxiety and self doubt like us, but still are trying to develop sensitivity to other's thoughts about you to become better people. And that's really nice to see.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/6dhr6z/
author:Trumpeachment
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:9867
numComments:395
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True