title:
LPT- Dont buy a new car ever. As a former CPF the biggest waste of money young people make are buying cars new.

content:
I used to work for UBS as a CFP before i went to pharmacy school and i used to handle a lot of younger accounts between the ages of 25-35. 

Never ever buy a car new. Its the single worst money mistake anyone can make. 

The reasons are that new cars have a huge depreciation upon purchase. 90% of the time a car is purchased brand new you are already upside down since its a depreciating asset. I cant tell you how many kids i have seen that make 50k a year and are drowning due to a $500 a month car payment, thats about 32k financed at 72 months. 

Cars only take you from point A-B. There is literally no point financially in buying a fancy new BMW or Mercedes.  I always recommend buying something under 20k that is a CPO.  You can find amazing deals on 1-2 year old cars with full warranty in that price range. 

The only issues with buying used is that you will pay a slightly higher interest rate but that will not be an issue.  Another note is even if they offer you a 0% interest rate its still usually a bad deal. For example a new chevrolet malibu is around 30k new. it was being offered at a 0% interest rate for 60 months. currently you can buy a 2014 malibu for around 11k if you where to take the payments on that malibu even at 0% you would still be upside down on the car and owe more than its worth in only 3 years. 

Here is some math to explain my point. You can buy a 3 year old Malibu every 3 years for 9 years and still be way better of financially. The reason is that when you go to sell the malibu in 3 years time you may get 7-8k for it when you go and sell the new malibu it would only be worth 11k in 3 years. You can see how the money adds up drastically in 9 years time of buying and selling new versus used. your total used cost would be less than what you would lose when selling a new Malibu 1 time.  


























Here are the reasons why this is.

When buying a car used you also dont take as much as a depreciation hit when reselling a car.  For instance when buying a car for $10k the depreciation on the car is almost terminal and it will maybe lose 5-10% of its value per year compared to a new car that can take a 20-30% depreciation per year. For a 40k car that can be a huge hit financially. The cheaper the car the less deprecation will effect it per year. 

Hopefully this can paint a picture for anyone looking to buy a car in the future. This should be common knowledge but many people dont look at things with the future in mind. 














Edit 
people are misinterpreting my post. This is purely from a financial standpoint. From a finance perspective buying new is a terrible investment. I am only looking at it from a financial side were you can use the funds saved and apply them to a 401k, RothIRA or house all of those can be considered appreciating assets. Of course there are exemption and not everyone is in the same boat financially. Buying new can sometimes make sense from a business perspective for tax reasons or high use as well as buying new under 15k. 


url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/6ihcog/
author:sfvalet
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:19510
numComments:4095
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True