title:
LPT: If you are disappointed with a service and want to cancel - always talk to the company's sales department, not billing.

content:
Last year I signed up for a 9-month ISP contract aimed at students. This is great for us as we tend to spend 9 months away before returning home for the summer.
As I have one more year left at university, three weeks a go I scheduled for our new house to be installed with their service. Whilst on the phone with them I gave them my details and informed them of my current situation (currently back with parents, no longer living in previous account address, when I'm moving in, etc). They hinted at nothing regarding what I'm about to explain below.

It's been about 2 months since I moved out and I've been hit with two lots of monthly charges plus a late payment fee. Turns out the 9 month contract just rolled over. I wasn't too happy seeing as the biggest selling point was the fact it was advertised as a '9 month Student Contract' so I stupidly assumed it would just stop. I haven't even been living in the house for the past 2 months yet I'm still paying for this shit.

So I phoned them up and selected the options for help with billing. They were the rudest, most patronising people I've ever spoken too. After 20 minutes of back and forth I just hung up. I phoned up later to cancel my past service and my future one.

A couple days later I received an email stating my new installation is on its way to the new address. What? I had cancelled it. I phone up and follow the options to the 'Moving Home' related issues. I explained that I must have got this email by mistake. The lady on the phone then proceeds to go through my cancellation request. Just as I'm about to hang up she asks, "So are you not moving to that house anymore?". To which I reply, "Yes, but unfortunately I cannot afford your service. My last contract with you guys has made sure of that". She replies with "Well, we don't want to lose you so let's see what I can do". I tell her what happened and then I'm put on hold. When the lady returns I'm showered with free credit and a discounted monthly charge.

I didn't cancel my new contract.

TLDR: Rolling contract fucked me, billing team gave the middle finger, sales team gave me credit and reduced my monthly fee.

EDIT: Formatting

EDIT2: It's been pointed out that I was probably talking with the retention department and not the sales team. It's also been said that talking to the retention department is the better option. 

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/6rk93t/
author:hozzerford
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1507
numComments:69
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True