title:
LPT: if you live alone, put together a "sick kit" for those times you get sick and don't want to/can't go to the store

content:
I thought about this today because I woke up early this morning with a touch of either a stomach bug or mild food poisoning. I live alone, my family lives out-of-state, and being that I'm in my 30s, all of my friends have jobs during the week and I'm not going to call and bother any of them at 6am to go get stuff for me at the grocery store. So I ended up mustering as much strength as I could and going to Kroger to get stuff like ginger ale, pedialyte, chicken soup, saltines, and popsicles. It was not one of my best moments.

I couldn't help think how it would have been so much more convenient if I had some sort of pre-prepared "sick kit" containing these types of items. I was always taught to keep medicines around in my first aid kit like Tylenol, pepto bismol, Vicks vapo rub, cough drops etc. - general medicines you need for when you're sick but not "go to the doctor" sick. However, this kind of stuff is really only half of what I needed today. I needed liquids to drink that would be easy on my stomach (and replenish what I was losing through... things that happen in the bathroom when you're sick) and bland foods to keep up my strength without making me sicker.  I didn't really have anything on hand, because these aren't items I consume regularly. I just don't get sick very often.

It would have been nice to be able to just get out my kit and have everything I went to the store for today, since these are pretty common types of items that I like to have whenever I have any sort of general cold/flu/bug. You can make your own list of preferred items, but here's what I'm going to stock for future use:

Saltine crackers
Pedialyte/Gatorade
Plain rice cereal (chex, Rice Krispies, etc.)
Flavor-ice style popsicles that can be stored at room temp and popped into the freezer when needed
Ginger ale
Chicken noodle soup
Applesauce

Even if you don't live alone, a kit like this could come in handy. I know that there are delivery services that exist now too, but you will pay a premium for the products and you still have to wait for delivery. Pre-stocking a kit allows you to be picky about what you will pay, and not everyone lives where delivery is available anyway.

One last note, obviously most of this stuff is perishable, so keep your kit somewhere that you won't forget about it until it's too late.
 
EDIT - wow guys, this has been fun! I posted this and passed out for a while and woke up to a ton of fun comments and other great suggestions. A couple of quick notes...

1) Yes, as many people have pointed out (and as I did too) there are grocery delivery services that exist like Amazon prime now. I think this is still a good tip for many reasons. First of all, like I already said, you will pay premium prices for products through most delivery services, and many of them have minimum purchase limits and/or delivery fees. And then there's the fact that you have to wait for the delivery. Also there are "business hours" for most of these services, so if you wake up puking in the middle of the night, you'll have to wait until they're open. Lastly many people still don't live where these services are available.

2) The main criticism I'm hearing is something along the lines of, "Don't you already keep stuff like this around the house? I mean obviously any responsible adult would stock these items." Well, here's the thing, not everyone thinks to stock foods they almost never eat/drink. Congratulations if you regularly buy pedialyte and canned chicken noodle soup, but a lot of people wouldn't think to buy these items normally. So if this is what you're thinking of commenting, trust me it's already been said.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/7b7b4v/
author:chap_stik
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:34149
numComments:1374
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True