title:
LPT: if you get mail delivered that’s already been opened, report it to the postal inspector

content:
There’s lots of holiday cards being sent through the mail this time of year. They are easy to spot since they’re usually a very distinct shape and size. Many times these cards will have checks or cash in them, making them really easy targets for mail theft. 

It’s clearly easy to track who cashed a stolen check, but not so much with cash. 

If your mail is arriving opened and things are missing, report it. There is a special postal inspection service specifically for this type of thing. You can report online or over the phone. 

[Here is the link to their site. ](https://postalinspectors.uspis.gov/)  I called them today to report this exact issue and was routed to a real, live person very quickly AND they were courteous and very helpful. Took all pertinent information and confirmed it and let me know I would be contacted in the next 2-3 business days.  It was all very efficient and easy. 

Suggest to family members and people that might send cash in a card to, instead, send a check (since they’re easier to track, can do stop payments if necessary). If they must send cash, have them send in a standard sized security envelope (the kind that have some type of pattern on the inside to make them less transparent), or in a standard sized not security envelope, but wrapped in a piece of lined paper or two so it isn’t readily apparent what’s inside. 


**edit:** wow, this got popular! 
 
* Because there may be some confusion, reporting to your post office, is not the same as reporting to the postal inspector.

* I posted this because I have recently had my mail arrive deliberately opened.  And I mean, the envelope was sealed with packing tape that had been sliced through, presumably with a knife-like object.  

* I am in the US, but from the comments, it looks like the UK has something similar for their mail.  A quick Google search looked to have some good resources.

* There's a lot of folks saying nothing will happen, and that may be the case, but from reading the web site, it looks like they determine whether to investigate based on trends and number of reports.  If several people in a neighborhood are being affected, maybe try getting everyone to call in and report the issue so the inspectors don't write it off to "the mail machine probably tore up the envelope."

* If you can tell me how to get rid of the picture, I would be happy to.  When I added the link to the inspector's site, I guess Reddit decided to pick a picture of one of their most wanted.



url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/7jxtam/
author:Araby_Ashbough
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:19613
numComments:855
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True