title:
YSK theres a multilevel marketing "game" going around

content:
Sorry if this is long, messy, and a bit repetitive, I just want to make sure the point gets across and that  everything is explained well.

There's a new" "game" spreading around, mostly with those in highschool as far as I can tell that's a multilevel marketing scam. While often called a game or because a lottery or gambling is not appropriate because it is a fixed outcome, you should not fall into it.

The most common version I've seen is a $20 buy in that puts you on a ladder or board. As more people join, you get pushed up the ladder and the higher you are the more money you get/when you get to the top you get a grand prize (I've seen it as $160 and will be using this number to explain). 

Since there needs to be $160 for every grand prize "winner" that means that 8 people have to buy in for per winner and the other 7 get screwed over. The burden of being screwed over gets passed down the ladder to more and more people resulting in 85% of "players" (suckers) losing and being out $20 without having a chance at winning. 

Important things to note: there can only be a maximum of 11 tiers/rounds for everyone on the planet to play once. This means that its very quickly going to get to a point where you can't win if you enter.

It's a fixed game. Only the first who join can win (and that's only if it gets popular enough). If you join late you're going to lose.

By the time you're hearing about this, a large portion of those who are going to win already have so you're going to be on the bottom more than likely and lose.

If you join and rope your friends in after you, you're responsible for their loss and for screwing them over.

There are winners in this but it is only the early players who do. Don't join it, don't spread it, don't screw yourself and others over.

Recap about why it doesn't work:
Not enough money in the system. Per 8 people put in $20 for a $160 payout to the winner. That's all the money in the system and the other 7 lose. 

There can only be a maximum of about 11 tiers 8ยนยน is about 8.6 billion players. Not everyone is going to join, in fact most people shouldn't so there's going to be a lot of losers. 

It's a fixed system. This isn't a lottery. You don't have a *chance* to win. Only the early win. 

Even if you are one of the first to join, you can't join a second time because you'll be in the bottom 85% at that point and unless money magically multiplies by 8 each round (which it doesn't as we all know) you won't win

It's a completely unsustainable model designed to take advantage of the unaware


Please parents and siblings, educate about multilevel marketing. People who hear about it, please don't join and spread it. The bigger it gets, the more people get burned, and it will be your fault if you do. This is not a game, it's a scam.

Edit: it's a pyramid scheme, not MLM since no actual product it being sold, but you get the point

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/7qxoqf/
author:Super681
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:2780
numComments:217
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True