title:
LPT: If you see a vehicle accident and don’t want to or can’t stop to help, call 911. Even if you think someone definitely must have called 911 already, call 911 anyway. You will probably be the first/only person to call.

content:
LPT background: So my family and I were recently in a very serious head-on fatality collision on a highway. Luckily for us our phones were in our jacket pockets when it happened (second LPT? Don’t keep your phones loose in your vehicle) so when we came to on the side of the highway we were able to call 911. Our car was mangled and we couldn’t get the doors open so we were stuck inside but I could see through my side window as vehicle after vehicle after vehicle passed by us. Seriously there were over like 40 vehicles that passed by us. 
After getting out of the hospital we were speaking with the police recently and something they said really struck me. The only 911 call placed at all was from us. Not a single person stopped, which I can somewhat understand when it’s dark and icy out, but of all of those vehicles nobody even called 911. 
If we had been knocked unconscious longer, or if our phones had been wrecked in the crash, we would have been stuck there for who knows how long. My kid probably would have died (he needed emergency surgery), we could have ended up freezing or bleeding out. It was really.... actually quite depressing when I heard that the only people who called it in were us! 
So the next time you see an accident when driving just play it safe and call it in. You could save a life.

Edit: to clarify I want to state that yes I would much prefer for everyone to go and help if they witness an accident or emergency as well as call 911. That would 100% be preferable. I was just trying to reach the absolute laziest, scared, ambivalent, etc. out there and say if you DON’T stop you should at least call 911. 
If your countries laws require you to stop at an emergency and help then yes obviously do that.

Edit Again: it’s been brought up that if it’s just a minor thing like a fender bender that calling 911 can be a waste of time and resources. I agree that this can occur and obviously you have to use your judgement (stop and assess if you can as that will help with this) but I still stand by my post that if you don’t know it’s better to err on the side of caution and call.

P.S. thanks for the gold kind stranger! 

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/80ujr0/
author:GuruGurrlicious
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:9415
numComments:418
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True