title:
LPT: When resigning from a company, don't tell a single person until your management has acknowled and accepted it.

content:
As a manager who faces employee resignations, in many ways it can open a door to conversation. It's not always about money. Maybe it's an opportunity in another department, maybe it's a change in responsibility and yes, sometimes it's a pay change.

However, the moment you go running to your coworkers proudly telling them you've just given your notice, that opportunity is gone. Management generally doesn't need the appearance of weakness and counter offers are precisely that. If half the company knows and you ended up staying with the company, everyone knows what happened and it fosters bad behavior.

Also, accepting a counter offer is NOT the end of the world as many would have you believe. It's entirely situational and sometimes you have to play the game.



EDIT: Wow. Compensation is always a touchy subject. A few things to understand before you continue to assume that I am the world's worst manager.  

1. Someone posted a good summary of how the annual review/raise process works.  We get a bucket of money to spread across a team as we see fit.  It's usually a small bucket.  I also never have the power to walk into HR and say "Hey, give this guy a 20% raise, he's earned it. Oh, and why not do the same for the rest of my team while you're at it?"  In fact, I have very little control and even a counter is just leverage for any manager to get traction on the subject.  

2. Seems that the consensus is that every single person in the workforce outside of the fabled "top performer" is underpaid.  I can assure you that that isn't the case.  Many times people have that impression and they are actually perfectly within their pay bands.  Go ahead, tear me apart for this, it's just the truth...

3. Remember employment is a mutual agreement.  Everything is in play.  If you don't like what you do or what you get paid, talk with your feet.  There is nothing wrong with that.  

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/82enz9/
author:NotKennethBone
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:30450
numComments:2200
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True