title:
YSK what to do if your dog is choking

content:
If your dog is choking, you should know the steps to take to help save its life. Dogs can easily choke on toys, food, bones or other items, and a quick and efficient response is necessary in a potentially life-threatening situation. 

1. First, open your dog's mouth and look for the object. Place one hand on the upper jaw with your thumb on one side and the rest of your finders on the other side.

2. With your other hand, push down on the lower jaw, keeping your index finger free to sweep back into the mouth. If you can see the object, remove it. If there are two of you, one of you should hold your dog's mouth open and the other look inside.

3. If that doesn't work, hold your dog upside down with his tail toward your face. Place your arms around his lower abdomen for 30 seconds while gently swaying him. 

4. If that doesn't work, place your dog on his side on a hard surface, tilted with his head down and hindquarters up. If you can grab a pillow or rolled towel, put it under his hindquarters just make sure the front part of his body is lower than his back.

5. With a small dog, place one hand on his back to steady him and the other under the center of the rib cage. Press in and up four to five times in a thrusting motion. With a large dog, you'll need both hands for the thrust, so place both hands beneath the rib cage and press in and up four or five times.

6. If you don't have time to place your dog on his side, you can stand or kneel behind your dog. Grasp his body at the bottom of his rib cage. Apply firm, quick pressure and compress the abdomen by pushing up with your fist(s). Repeat two to five times. 

7. If the dog is still choking, a sharp blow with your hand between your pet's shoulder blades might help dislodge the item. 

8. If you are unable to dislodge the object, you may need to perform rescue breathing and CPR, while someone takes you and your dog to a veterinarian or emergency animal clinic.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/8p2l04/
author:gangbangkang
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:5486
numComments:157
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True