title:
YSK that if you use certain drugs to medicate your dog/cat for storm and firework anxiety, they are completely aware of whatever is terrifying them but are unable to move, which is why their anxiety gets worse over time, because they remember everything.

content:
Acepromazine, or "Ace" as it's often referred to, is a very common pre-anesthetic drug often given to take home in tablet form for dogs that have storm anxiety or experience trauma with fireworks or grooming. Some vets prescribe it for aggressive animals to be given before appointments so they are more manageable by the veterinary staff. 

This is an older drug, but it's still very prevalent in the veterinary field today, and is used per the discretion and preference of the DVM. 

When used *in combination* with other drugs (such as diazepam, which is truly an anxiolytic, or ketamine, a catatonic anesthetic), it causes great relaxation and those drugs help make the animal mentally relaxed. In these situations it's totally humane, useful, and responsible. 

When given by itself, the dog or cat is locked inside its own brain. Recent studies have monitored brain activity and revealed that dogs undergoing traumatic events on acepromazine were completely aware of their surroundings, including noises and being touched. They were still terrified, but their motor skills were reduced and therefore they visually seem to be relaxed. 

This explains why people often see their pet's anxiety with storms get worse and worse over time; the dogs know when a storm is coming, and they know every time it happens that they're suddenly not in control of their bodies and can't do anything but lay there in horror. If it were me, I'd get more anxious and/or aggressive over time too! 

Some vets have moved on to better, newer products to help ease anxiety, but there's still plenty of vets that use this as the gold standard. 

If you have to medicate your pet for severe situational anxiety, check and make sure this isn't the drug you're using. It may make your pet relaxed, but they're suffering in silence on the inside. There are all sorts of new medications and solutions to help keep your pet calm, safe, and comforted. 


Edit: as requested, my credentials are that I'm a board Registered Veterinary Technician with over 15 years of experience. 

As far as a source, it's [newly] common knowledge in the veterinary field and new veterinarians and technicians are being taught this in school right out of the gate. Older vets or those who are really stubborn (and there are plenty of those) may not have stopped using it in their practice. I learned it at a continuing education conference. The link to the literature/sources from that study are at work and it's the weekend, but for those of you who are sticklers for verification I can dig up the details when
I go back to work next week. 

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/90gxlj/
author:_banana_phone
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:1378
numComments:113
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True