title:
LPT: The perfect job is not one where you don't have to do anything you don't want to do, it is one where doing the things you don't want to do are worth it.

content:
EDIT: Yes an edit at the start, it's that important, I didn't do anything to cause the notifications you are receiving, I didn't pay anything to anyone and frankly it makes me feel dirty this is happening. I received gold for the first time a few days ago, that's the only thing I can think of to have caused this. 

This post had 7 upvotes when the notifications started going out, I thought it was dead, then I start getting all this hate because users are getting push notifications.

TBH I got 1 notification before I turned off the setting in the official Reddit app so I don't really get why people are so butthurt, however it is evidently affecting the way we all communicate on Reddit which is a BIG deal for me.

(I removed a profanity ridden politically focused rant ftom this section as it no longer seemed necessary)

Edit 2: Ok people are asking so I'll try to put together the original post from memory.

The old adage goes "do something you love and you'll never work another day in your life" which sounds great but is true for very, very few people, the vast majority of us in rewarding, fullfilling careers have to do things they don't want to do and it is very easy to "grass is greener" looking at occupations from the outside.

Post your dream job in the comments and in all likelihood someone will post the part of it they don't like doing and why it is worth it.

Actors don't like sitting for hours memorising their lines, game devs don't enjoy spending days sifting through code to find a misplaced apostrophe and even rock stars hate all the travelling and interviews. They all do these things they don't want to do because the end result is so satisfying. 

It is human nature to follow the path of least resistance, however chasing jobs based on how easy they are is unlikely to lead you down a fullfilling career path, what we all ultimately want in this life is to feel valued and more often than not this requires us doing things we don't want to do.

You can have a job where you do absolutely nothing all day and get paid heaps of money and I can guarantee you something will be missing. 

Not quite what I originally wrote but in essence is what I was trying to say.

Thanks to some of you commenters, I realised it can be viewed from a wider perspective not limited to your career.

You can have a job which consists entirely of doing things you don't want to do with no intellectual payoff, but if that job allows you to go home every night, be with the ones you love and provide a better life for them it can be the perfect job, because doing the things you don't want to do are worth it, because you feel valued.




url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/97gad0/
author:Edenspawn
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:6952
numComments:557
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True