title:
YSK the most effective way to repel Ants is a combination of Baking Soda &amp; Cayenne Pepper powder dry mix; 4 parts Baking Soda, 1 part Cayenne pepper powder. Here's the process:

content:
Ants won't go *near* this combination. This simple DIY method is something I came up with tonight after doing research on ants and all the ways to combat them. It was so shockingly, wonderfully effective that my jubilation turned into a desire to rule over the ants that I had trapped with me after my initial attack created a battle line. It's a tale as old as time itself. How shall I start...

I have an old recliner next to the exterior wall of my place and it's collected enough sugar/crumbs over the years that Little Black Ants had created a trail from a crack between the moulding and the sliding door allowed them to create their highway to this recliner. I know, not the best housekeeping but this particular piece of furniture has black holes where it's almost impossible to really get a good clean. 

I set up the raid traps with the borax and peanut butter in the little plastic house and wait a couple days. They say it can take up to a week for those to kill the ants but honestly I think they were more into whatever they were already collecting than the traps. 



Tonight I decided two days of this was enough. I did some research and made a **baking soda &amp; cayenne pepper powder** dry mixture about 80% baking soda. I held it in my hand and blew it into their main entrance through the little crack and the incoming traffic stopped immediately. I stood there, basking in the small victory. I then applied the dry powder all over their highway, creating barriers and causing chaos. I wedged more dry mix all all the way up and down the crack once I saw they sent a few scouts further up the crack to try a new route. I smashed the ants that were trapped inside along the wall and moulding with a slightly damp paper towel as they panicked and scattered. The species Little Black Ants (that's actually their name) smell gross when crushed which I learned first hand tonight and confirmed with my research. 


It has become hilarious to watch the remaining ants exit the recliner in groups of two or three and just walk in circles because behind the perimeters that I created. I always leave one alive; as soon as a new ant exits the recliner the current champion is executed. I have made them my subjects.





Nobody in their colony knows what happened beyond that wall. All that calony knows is that the spice blizzard immobilized  their men and blew a huge hole in their line. Nobody ever returned from behind enemy lines. All of the scouts sent to bring back intel never returned. The colony has many legends about what happened that fateful night(tonight), my friends.  None know for certain, but it is now forbidden by the queen for *anyone* to go within sensory range of that dwelling ever again, by fear of punishment of death.  


Okay back to dabs and subjugating insects. Thanks for reading.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/99l906/
author:mybuttiswaytoosmall
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:4620
numComments:285
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True