title:
LPT: microwaving leftovers or a frozen meal? Turn the power DOWN and the timer UP. 10mins at half power does a better job than 3 minutes on full throttle. Food comes out looking like food!!!

content:
Seriously, microwaves only do a shit job if you're impatient. Dial the power back, cook it for longer, and go choose your show on Netflix or whatevs while it cooks - you know you're just gonna let it go cold while you choose a show anyway, so get on top of your shit, flip it and reverse it, choose the show first and enjoy your hot leftovers rather than choking down a cold soggy mess.

For example: a lean cuisine green curry &amp; rice says on the box "COOK ON HIGH FOR 3 MINUTES LET STAND AND SERVE" - but it only says that because they know you're an impatient little shit and won't buy the box that says "COOK ON 1/4 POWER FOR 12 MINUTES" because if you're not going to cook your own calorie controlled curry, you're also not going to stand around waiting *TWELVE WHOLE MINUTES* for this one when the *other* brand says it's done in three.


EDIT BECAUSE YOU PEOPLE NEVER STOP POSTING THE SAME 'SUCH TIME YUCK MICROWAVE 20 MINS IN OVEN INSTEAD AM SMART' COMMENT A MILLION TIMES OVER:

I'm a chef. You all have high hopes for how quickly your oven pre heats, and how easily you can remove a frozen meal from plastic Tupperware to change into an oven safe dish. You all also seem to be the type of person who would blast their shit in the microwave anyway, because s frozen curry being cooked through in the oven in 20 mins from turning the oven on would mean using a blast furnace. Also, did the title say "if you're choosing how to reheat something...?" No. It doesn't. Because I'm SPECIFICALLY addressing **Microwave** usage, so outta here with your faux superiority, go make your own thread about ovens and toaster ovens and airfryers. Not everyone has those things - dorm students may have a cooktop and convection microwave. I certainly don't have space for a toaster oven to sit around on my bench like a jerk all day (that's what the microwave is for). 

Also for those asking about fries: skip the microwave and go straight to the sandwich press. You're welcome. 

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/9eclrq/
author:quinarian
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:38705
numComments:1940
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True