title:
LPT - Have a look at a map of the area you live in. Pick 52 spots you've never visited, or are not familiar with. Write them down on individual scraps of paper, and drop them in a hat/nag/whatever. Commit to going to a random spot every week for a year.

content:
This works if you're alone, with a partner, a friend, dog, etc.   You'll get a new appreciation for your city, and you'll get some exercise.   The wife and I started this   a few weeks ago, and it's been awesome.

*edit* for aditional ideas.  What I did when I set this up was to pick 26 nature type places, and 26 commercial ones.  So depending on our mood and the weather we dip into the relevant hat and off we go.  All you need is a pair of shoes, and  raincoat or umbrella for wet days.  A camera is awesome too.  Outside is beautiful if you're out for a stroll and keep your eyes away from your phone.

Ohh... "nag" =bag.. Sorry! 

*more editing*
There are are 2 groups of very hesitant people in the comments. The 'my city is too dangerous' group and the 'my area is too boring' group.  Please don't put yourselves in danger.  The areas you pick should obviously be relatively safe.  And I realize density of 'interesting' spots will vary.  The spots you pick don't need to stand out as interesting though.   Just spots you haven't really explored, other than mindlessly passing through.  
Here's what I'm getting at.  You may have walked down a street a bunch of times on your way to x, y, or z.   When you did that you were on a mission, and likely didn't take in your surroundings.   Go without a specific end point in mind, and with a sense of curiosity.   Curiosity is the key.

Here's how I picked spots.  Used Google maps on map view.  I looked for green areas, and zoomed in a bit to make sure they weren't private, then maybe switched to see if there were trees, or just fields, any water features, etc before deciding to add them.  Then I looked for yellow stretches along roads that denote commercial areas.  and added those.   Commercial areas are great, especially in quieter, or run down neighborhoods because you get mom 'n pop type places and never know what interesting things or people you might run into.   

*alright, another edit*
Lots of people are suggesting geocaching, or Pokemon Go.  Both are fun, and a great way to get off the  couch.  So is running, and strenuous hiking.  I think this is different because there is no specific thing to look for, or destination to reach.  We stroll to get a little air, and to give ourselves a chance to observe, interact with, and appreciate the details in our surroundings.   

  

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/akuy8j/
author:FerretFarm
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:25103
numComments:885
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True