title:
YSK some basic tips, advice, and harm reduction techniques if you are new to using recreational marijuana.

content:
I want to hopefully prevent some very possible  and very bad first experiences with this plant, as well as share some abuse prevention techniques. Not all of this is fact, merely opinions and advice widely spread in the community. If you have been prescribed medical marijuana, take this with a grain of salt - your doctor is much smarter than me, knows you and your body, and I hope they took the time to properly educate you. If not, most of this still rings true.

Firstly: Think about why you want to use this drug. Is it truly recreational, or is it to cope with something in your life? If it is the latter, please reconsider your use. Use as a coping mechanism can easily lead to psychological addiction or dependency, as with any substance. Many users unfortunately seem to ignore or deny that this drug can be abused like any other. However, when used properly, it can have wonderful effects for some people. If you're depressed, please think about how putting more chemicals into an already  unbalanced brain or body can affect you - look at all the warnings that come with many antidepressants.

Second: If you decide to use cannabis, I very strongly recommend you do not eat it in any way for your first experience. Edibles are a massively different experience and can overwhelm even seasoned users if overconsumed. If you do choose to ingest it, please be careful, and know that there are low-dose edibles available. I also suggest you do not mix it with alcohol - some call this "droning" (drunk and stoned), or being crossfaded. Whatever you decide to call it, it can be extremely unpleasant unless you are highly experienced with cannabis. I can compare a bad crossfade experience to inescapable motion sickness - some refer to this as "the spins".

As for the method of use, many recommend using a vaporizer, and rightfully so - it can both reduce the smoke's harshness, and inhaled particulates. If this is not available, I recommend a small pipe, as they offer the most control over inhalation than other smoking methods in my opinion. Pipes can be as little as $5-10 and are easily found, even in certain shops in illegal states. Something with a water filter, such as a bubbler or bong can reduce the harshness, but please be careful.  Take small hits, and try to space them out even if you don't feel anything initially. 5 to 10 minutes between hits is a recommended time to wait to understand how it is affecting you, and by how much. You do not need to hold in the smoke for an extended period of time, the vast majority of active chemicals are absorbed within seconds - holding it only causes more severe tar depositions in your lungs. This is a myth perpetuated by some misguided members of the community in an attempt to get higher.

Third: After you have used it, I suggest trying to do something with the high once you have it. A hobby, watching something, anything you can immerse yourself in and enjoy yourself while doing. Avoid unfamiliar scenarios and getting high in them until you are experienced with this drug and how it affects you. This is a psychoactive drug that can affect you without your realization, somewhat similar to alcohol. If you feel panicked or overwhelmed, understand and do not forget that it will end eventually, even if it feels like it won't. You will not die, even if it feels like you may. Sniffing fresh black pepper (it helps by working to block cannabinoid receptors in your brain) and drinking water can help it pass more quickly. Be around someone you trust the first times you use it. Please do not partake in potentially dangerous activities or operate vehicles or machinery while you are under the influence.

Fourth, and most importantly: Stay hydrated and listen to your body while you are using cannabis. The body realizes that it's inhaling an irritant, so it produces mucus in the lungs to protect tissues, absorb particulate matter, and eventually expel it from the lungs. Cannabis is very dehydrating, so unless you try to maintain hydration this mucus can thicken and impair the body's ability to remove it, which may lead to buildup. It also has the effect of decreasing saliva production, resulting in what we call cottonmouth. It has the same effect on your tear production, which causes the scratchy eyes you might experience. These are honestly the worst things about a healthy relationship with this drug, and can be easily managed with hard candies, gum, drinking hydrating fluids, and eye drops.

If anyone else has advice I can add to this, or disagrees with something here, please share your thoughts.

Edit: Added some additional information and suggestions from commenters, and altered the wording of some things for greater clarity. Thank you everyone for helping constribute to this, and thank you for the gold and silver!

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/anrvao/
author:Xifani
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:1320
numComments:182
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True