title:
LPT: Use pushups to break unwanted habits. Every time you get the urge to do that unhealthy thing drop and give yourself 10. If you can't do 10, do 5 or 3 or whatever you can do. You're not only breaking your old habit but also starting a new, healthy one. It only takes a few seconds to get started!

content:
Long! No TLDR cause it's kinda in the title. 

Just think about how many times that thing pops into your head over then course of a day. 5, 10, 15 times? Now think how good it would feel knowing you did 50, 100, 150 pushups today! I know, it sounds hard but it's way easier than you think! If you can't do 10 (or can do more than 10) then just do what you can and you'll be surprised by how quickly you can start doing more. This is because at the same time as breaking this old habit your also employing one of the best methods to increase your performance, known as grease the groove. But this is only one aspect of the exercise! 

Along with increasing the amount of exercise throughout the day, which is beneficial by itself, this also can really help break bad habits! To understand this you have to understand why habits form. I like to classify habits in two categories; habitual and addictive or just habitual. (Now realize I am not a psychologist and this probably isn't the correct classification but we'll roll with it!) This method can work for both of these. The habitual aspect of habits is, in my opinion, the easiest to tackle because it just needs to be constantly interrupted to be broken and we've got that part covered! Addiction is harder. (Please take note once again that this is my personal opinion and is in no way a substitute for treating an actual serious addiction! If you are struggling with addiction please seek help from a local support group or counselor!) This works best with minor things but I think if you keep at it can help with bigger issues in the long run. This is because exercise has been consistently show to release dopamine and help balance brain chemistry. So not only are you interrupting the habitual process consistently, but also giving yourself a new source of dopamine to offset what you would get from that habit in the first place. 

However, this does take some willpower and you have to be strict with yourself! No breaks or "just this once!" Obviously you can't always drop what you are doing and start doing random pushups without looking like a psycho. Instead try and make a note to complete those pushups later. This isn't an excuse to not do them though. That's the entire point; holding yourself accountable! That being said, don't drop it if you slip up. It will happen so just move on and keep doing it! 

&amp;#x200B;

That said here's my experience with this technique: 

If your expecting some life-changing story sorry to disappoint. This is basically just me keeping myself from getting super fat awhile back. So, dumb high school me thought it would be a great idea to undersell the school cafeteria's shitty, overpriced cookies and chips (spoilers: the faculty didn't like that!). Anyways, it actually worked out pretty well and I soon had multiple kids distributing soda, chips, cookies and candy bars. I was making bank! But I the same time I started to get high on my own supply. It started with a candy bar here or there, but what do you expect when a high schooler literally has hundreds of dollars of junk food available 24/7. It soon got so bad that I was easily eating 1,500+ calories of candy and soda a day on top of my normal diet. As you can probably guess this didn't improve my health at all and it only got worse once the school shut me down. Now, I had a literal closet full of this stuff and no way to get rid of it except to eat through it. Again, not great for my health, but luckily I realized this before it was too late. There's really not much more to it from here. I basically just did what I outlined above. When I started I could just do 15 pushups, so I did 10 every time I even thought about a candy bar. Soon, I was eating and craving way less. Within a week I had stopped the eating and was just doing it for the cravings. This kickstarted my love of calisthenics and helped me get my diet on track (mostly). Trust me if shitty impulse-control high school me can do it then so can you!

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/b04hxp/
author:DFjorde
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:3876
numComments:203
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True