title:
YSK: Paypal has it's Own Exchange rate/Conversion rates. The Price you are Charged on a Website (Like Ebay.) May not be the price Paypal Charges you and Potentially Cost you more Money then the confirmed Purchase Price.

content:
Recently I made a purchase on Ebay from a UK seller. (I am in the states.)  The price was listed in GBP.  Ebay converted the price for me before the purchase so it was in US dollars.  Since I had my credit card linked with my Paypal I decided to just use the Paypal option (as my Discover card was the default payment on my Paypal, I get 5 percent cash back and it was a fairly large purchase.)  I saw the price on Ebay and clicked Confirm Purchase.  I have alerts on my phone for my credit card.  The alert said I got charged an extra 16 dollars.  I checked the Paypal invoice to learn that they have their own exchange rate and charged me more then what Ebay said I would be charged.   I would not have confirmed the purchase if I had seen the price I was charged.

I would advise you not to use paypal when making an international purchase on Ebay.  I got charged more money then the confirmed purchase price because instead of just using my credit card, I used paypal.  My only recourse was to cancel the purchase, contact the seller and either ask them to relist it or see if I could work something out and wait days to get my refund back.  This would cost the seller money and time.   Or I could just eat the extra amount.

&amp;#x200B;

Edit: Apparently you can change who does the conversion rates if you have Credit Card linked to your account.  Here is how you do it.  

1. Gear icon, top right

2 Payments tab near the top (next to security tab)

3. Click on "manage pre-approved payments"

4. On the left hand side, you will see "Can't find what you're looking for? Try the [manage preapproved payments](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_manage-paylist) page." (you may have to scroll down. Botton left.)

4.1 Click on "manage preaproved payments"

5. Now in the old view, look for "set available funding sources" it will be on the right side of the page

6.  Finally your credit cards with "conversion options" will appear. 

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/b5coo3/
author:Lizard_brooks
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:3215
numComments:82
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True