title:
LPT - Follow Leash Laws. Just because your dog is friendly doesn't mean other dogs are.

content:
This really should be common sense, but apparently it's not. I feel it needs to be posted after a few incidents I've witnessed and been involved in over the last couple months at the local park.

Our local park has an offleash dog park. It's fenced in, the dogs can run around, great! However, outside of the fenced in area is a large general park that is very busy with big signs that say "Dogs must be on a leash!" It's impossible to miss them.

First a couple weeks ago, I witnessed a dog almost getting hit because the owner had their dog off leash in the main part of the park and they weren't paying attention to it. It went running out in front of a car chasing a bird and the guy in the car had to slam on their brakes to avoid hitting it. Fortunately because it's a park they were going pretty slow, but come on people. That can be avoided!

Second, just because your dogs are theoretically friendly does not mean mine are. My dog is about 15 pounds and has anxiety and leash aggression. As part of training him, I've been taking him to the park because being around other dogs and rewarding him when he behaves has definitely helped him become less aggressive when on the leash. I've seen a lot of improvement over the last couple of months.

Yesterday I was walking him, he was doing pretty good. I had him on a short leash, we were working on 'heel'. I come around the corner and there is a large dog off leash. Now I had pretty decent control over my dog, but the lady did not have any control over her dog. It wasn't listening at all and while I was able to walk past the dog without incident, it followed us and kept harassing my dog and getting in his face. The lady was just like "Oh, he's just being friendly, he just wants to play!" 

Well my dog wasn't having it. As I said, he's got leash aggression and he was snarling and barking. And when the other dog didn't leave him alone, he bit the ladies dog. 

He didn't hurt her dog, didn't draw blood. Just enough to let the dog know to leave him alone. Which the dog did. Anyways, the lady was pissed that my dog bit hers. She had all sorts of nasty things to say about me and how my dog shouldn't be out in public. How her dog was always so well behaved and it was my fault for bringing such a mean dog to the park and how her dog because it was well behaved had a right to be off leash.

I told her off because her dog was harassing mine, told her dogs are supposed to be on a leash unless they are in the off leash area, and if she had followed those rules her dog wouldn't have gotten bit. 

She walked off in a huff but it put a damper on my day. This could all have been avoided if she'd followed leash laws. Make your day better, make your dog's day better. Put your dog on a leash!

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/ber0np/
author:speedy_162005
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:4435
numComments:349
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True