title:
LPT: When Arguing, Try Restating the Main Point's of the Other Person's Argument Back to Them and Have Them Do the Same with You

content:
Believe it or not, the vast majority of Arguments are based on miscommunication.  

With arguments, there are often several things occurring simultaneously that result in conflict.

1) Not understand the other person's argument

2)  Feeling that the other person does not understand your argument

3) Convoluting and intertwining non-related issues into the argument

4)  Arguing about two different things all the while thinking you are both arguing about the same thing...

5) An unwavering belief that you are right and the other person is wrong and thus you don't need to listen to their argument

...

Next time you are arguing with someone pause the argument and restate their argument back to them.  

Something like, "Hold on, I want to make sure I understand what you are arguing. You are saying that XYZ is broken and the only way to fix XYZ is to get QRS to modify Y so that it will fit better into Z?"

Now this has several benefits.  

--First and foremost it helps to identify exactly what the fuck the argument is even about.  This is huge because most arguments get so convoluted the people arguing don't even know what they are arguing about (and this goes double for emotional and relationship type arguments when the people have history together).  

--Secondly,   this technique demonstrates you are making an attempt to understand them and this will have a calming effect

--Thirdly, it forces you out of the frame of mind that you are automatically right and enables you to actually "listen" and "hear" what they are saying.

--Fourth, it helps you step outside the argument, see both sides, be more objective and able to see more solutions.

You can also do the reverse.  Pause the argument and ask "Can you tell me what my argument is?  Can you explain the problem as I see it?

This forces them to pause and process what you are saying and it helps to break the momentum and out-of-control death spiral arguments tend to descend into.    And again, it helps to actually help define the EXACT problem...

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/c4prfh/
author:harrysapien
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:29577
numComments:588
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True