title:
YSK that if you’re ever in an auto accident, you’re insurance company CANNOT tell you what shop to take your car to....

content:
I’m an autobody/collision tech of 12 years, and every once in a while a friend of mine will tell me how they got into an accident, and when they called their insurance they were told they should take it to “X” shop because they’re a preferred repair facility. 

What this means is that the insurance company has struck a deal with that shop where in return for sending the shop work, the insurance company gets a discount on parts an Labor rate. This is a totally normal thing that happens across almost ALL body shops and insurance companies... the term is Designated/Direct Repair Facility, or DRP.  The nice thing about being a DRP for some of the larger insurance companies is that they always keep us busy with work, and it also streamlines the repair process because we tend to know who all the insurance adjusters are and they know we’re easy to work with etc. What this DOES NOT mean though is that you can ONLY bring your car to our shop if we happen to be a DRP for your insurance company.  Yeah they WANT you to take it there cuz it may be a little cheaper for the insurance company, but you can literally take your car to ANY legitimate body shop and the insurance company has to work with that shop. If they ever say that you can’t take it “Y” body shop for whatever reason, that is illegal. Just thought you all should know. Thanks!

Edit: forgot to mention I’m in the US and have no idea how this works in other countries... you’d have to take to body shops and your insurance.

Edit 2: Turns out, in some RARE instances, your insurance company can tell you what shops they can send you to, but it depends on your carrier and your policy. I’ve honestly never heard that, but a few commenters have stated as much so I guess just double check with your policy holder.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/ck394t/
author:Sickranchez87
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:6704
numComments:174
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True