title:
LPT: When Vacationing, always plan a day or two extra for downtime at home before going back to work/school.

content:
One of the best things I learned as an adult when planning my vacation/travel time is to always allow for a day or two extra. That time can be useful if you don't get home when you expected (aka travel mishaps), or if you need to do laundry/grocery shopping for the next week or just decompress before resuming your normal school/work schedule. Without the extra days vacation/travel time can often be so hectic or stressful that it feels like you didn't really get a chance to relax (especially if you have family or are visiting relatives), budgeting 2 extra days gives you a mental weekend to have some downtime and re-adjust. I often will go to visit my parents each year and will take the entire week off but only tell them I have 3 days, I visit, and then spend the rest of the week at home and still feel like I got some me-time in.

&amp;#x200B;

Edit: I appreciate everyone's comments, obviously not everyone agrees and I respect that, I think it's great there's a discussion. I apologize if I've somehow offended anyone by suggesting they taking some personal time at the end of vacation. Some people have been very vehement about the idea and that I posted it (Apparently this is commonly posted-I however was not aware and for that I apologize). But I respect their opinions.  I hope everyone enjoys what vacation time they get regardless and uses it how they want to use it. I know a great many people go into vacation thinking they need to spend every single day somewhere else doing something outside their normal schedule and end up becoming stressed over it or feeling like they had to rush at the end. (I know I've seen friends and coworkers do so) So my intention was only to suggest the idea for anyone who had perhaps not considered it before. Again, I apologize if I upset or offended anyone by posting.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/ckrkl7/
author:Halleaon
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:4505
numComments:264
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True