title:
YSK You can negotiate your interest rate and warranty when purchasing a car at a dealer. (And a bunch of other good tips that came to mind as I was typing this post.)

content:
I sold cars for a couple years in 2015 after I got out of the military and this is what I learned. 

Most people only think to, or only know to focus on price when negotiating but the dealer is legally allowed to jack your interest rate up 1.5%. This is an incentive for the dealer to increase your rate for the bank as the bank will give the dealer a kickback for the extra rate hike. More often than not it is best to get pre-approved from your preferred bank or credit union beforehand (bring it printed with you or available on your phone, make sure it is official and not generic, credit ran, the whole nine) but still see if the dealer can beat it as they still get incentives from the bank (without screwing you on the rate) that the finance manager sets you up with. Might save a little bit on your rate having them try to beat it. 

You can run your credit multiple times when looking into getting pre-approved for a car loan (mortgage too) within 30 days from the first credit pull and it will count as one hard inquiry. They changed this as it prevented people from getting a second opinion due to not wanting the hit on their credit report for multiple checks. So don't be afraid to tell the salesman/finance manager you are walkin' if you don't get the deal you want. (Unless you love the car and don't think you can find that opportunity easily somewhere else, then I wouldn't haggle unreasonably.) 

Also, I've found most people, once they go to sign after negotiating the terms for the purchase, assume the negotiating or the "hard part" is over. The warranty and other add-ons are negotiable, this is how the finance manager makes their commission. Any amount they sell the warranty or add ons (clear coat, seat protectant, car accessories) above the amount they can't go below is their commission. Hold firm and don't be an asshole and most times you can get away with a great deal on what they sell when signing. 

When negotiating price don't be a jerk and hold firm, within reason of course, they're not going to give it away. The best tactic after trying to wear them down is saying you will walk away, politely of course, if you're an ass they just won't care to deal with you. If you have you're pre approval already you've got nothing to lose but time, unless you love the car and dont think you can find elsewhere as I mentioned before. 

A lot of times if there is a dealership within reasonable driving distance that has a similar vehicle with a lower price (same year model, mileage, trim, condition or as close to it as possible) they will match it if there is enough profit in the car. If there are bigger cities near you they usually have better deals so search around before you go local to hopefully price match and save you the trip. Also it's good to keep the money in your local economy so win-win. 

New vehicles do not have as much profit for the dealer to negotiate as you may think. Maybe $2500-$3500 on average for Chevy, Toyota, Honda etc. Luxury cars there is more, Mercedes and BMW often had $7000+ when I was selling cars in 2015. (All of this info is based on when i was selling in 2015 so sorry if things have changed, please double check everything I've mentioned to be safe.) 

Dealers will often sell new vehicles later in the year a few hundred dollars under what they paid or at exactly what they paid (they call that figure "at invoice") because they mostly care about the units sold when it comes to new vehicles. That's how the manufacturer determines how many units they will provide that dealer based on how many vehicles they sell year over year (maybe month over month?) Also, the more new inventory they sell the more money they get from the manufacturer for the dealership.

On new vehicles the customer satisfaction survey the manufacturer sends the customer after a new purchase means EVERYTHING to the dealer so hang that over their head when negotiating. "I'm only giving you a perfect score on the survey if I get the deal I'm looking for." (Anything less than perfect on the survey is considered a fail so it holds a lot of weight for that perfect score.) Sometimes those assholes will put in a fake email for the survey if they feel the customer won't give perfect scores so tell them you'll be contacting the manufacturer to make sure you get your survey. 

For certain brands, Costco members get amazing deals on new cars with no haggling. Always within a few hundred dollars above or below what the dealer paid (we hated costco deals, low commission lol) go to Costco customer service to set this up (maybe online too?) 

Certified pre-owned purchases are great, they have low miles, a very thorough inspection/repair and a real beefy warranty.

The best time to get a good deal on a new vehicle is when they don't have many of the previous year model at the dealership as the current year models are coming in. (Buying a 2019 vehicle when there are a few left om the lot and they have mostly 2020's.) They really want to get rid of those to make room for the new one's with more profit. And as I said they are looking to just move the units, especially on the previous year models. 

We sold 90% of new Subaru's under what the dealer paid no matter what time of year. For some reason they gave those things away (figuratively) I'm not sure why to be honest but we always did that, it was an easy sale. They are amazing cars by the way. Unique engines, one of the safest cars, low maintenance (except for timing chain at around 120k miles deoending on the model and it's expensive, not covered under warranty) and about the best AWD in that category or "caliber" of vehicle.  

If the dealer is selling a used car that they took on trade that is your best chance to get a great deal as there is the most profit in those out of other used cars they bought from an auction, rental company, other dealer etc. ALWAYS SELL YOUR OWN USED CAR PRIVATE PARTY!!!! (On your own) They will offer a disgustingly low amount because you're excited about the new car you're buying and you just want to get in it that day or they know people are lazy/don't have time. If you don't need to sell your car to use for your down payment on the new one dont even bother bringing it in. Unless you dont feel comfortable selling on your own or have the time etc. then just bite the bullet and sell armor the dealeror pay a friend to sell it for you. 

When checking the carfax, if the dealer bought a car from cold weather areas with icy roads that they put salt down, check the bottom of the car for metal corrosion. That can be a deal breaker. 

Always, always, always take a used car you're going to purchase to have a mechanic look it over. Best money you can spend if you're serious about buying it. Even if it doesnt check out and you're out the $125 or whatever it is, it sure beats hundreds or maybe even thousands if it's items needing repair down the road (pun intended)  that the warranty won't cover. 

Make sure they give you a full tank of gas when buying a used car. 

If you're buying a new car and know exactly what you want and dont need a test drive or already have driven it (please drive before buying if you haven't though, make sure it's comfortable, drives smooth, good visibility etc.) you can call the dealer and negotiate over the phone and have them deliver it to your doorstep. Remember, you're in charge not them, be bold, be nice about it, stay firm and get your way. This can save you hours. They will bring all of the paperwork to you when delivering the car. You can do this with used cars but too risky.

Be leery of buying a car that was previously a rental on the carfax. Those are notorious for problems due to people driving them recklessly since it's just for a couple days and it's not there's. Some people drive rental cars very hard and get squirrelly. 

One of the best ways to buy a used car is buy it outside of a dealer (private party) have a mechanic inspect it!!!!!! And check kelly blue book price online. Then, depending on the mileage (they wknt sell a warranty over a certain amount of miles)  buy a warranty from a dealer. That's really the biggest reason to buy a used car from a dealer,.other than selection, is the warranty and most people don't know you can buy a warranty for your car from a dealership. Even if you bought a car new and once the warranty is up, I like buying another warranty if I'm keeping it for years longer. Usually floats around $2500 for economy class vehicles. LEARN THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN POWERTRAIN AND BUMPER-TO-BUMPER WARRANTIES AND WHAT THEY COVER. 

You can negotiate free oil changes when buying used cars and maybe even a free detail or two depending on the dealership setup. (Get these in writing.) 

That's all I got off the top of my head, hope this helps.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/cw2bo0/
author:yourbootyisheavyduty
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:8588
numComments:287
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True