title:
YSK what happens to those groceries you end up not buying at the register...

content:
NOT ALL STORES, THIS IS MY EXPERIENCE AT DIFFERENT  'HALL-CARTS'

I used to work at a huge, international store chain that sells near everything. It rhymes with hall-cart. 

Any and all groceries from any cold or frozen isle you chose not to get at the checkout is thrown away. Doesn't matter if you only had it out of the freezer for five minutes, we are not supposed to put it back in the freezer. Sometimes, sometimes, when we are 100% sure it is good (ie you literally just walked in and grabbed only that, then changed your mind, so it could have only been out for a moment,) an employee will put it back, but 98% of the time it ends up in a damaged goods cart to be thrown out. A typical day at my store had over 15 carts, over flowing (I mean a foot or more above the cart) of food just being thrown out because of someone simply changing their mind, or not budgeting properly while shopping 

This food isn't donated.
It isn't put back on shelves.
It's thrown in the trash. 
By the time it's even thrown away it's far past the time where someone could salvage it by dumpster diving because it's been sitting in a cart for an hour or more.

Since I've learned of this I've done all I can to do my part. I informed customers who reglarily over estimated their budget-food ratio that all this food they are handing to me will be thrown away. Some didn't care, but many I noticed gave a bit more thought to their shopping habits. I myself have changed mine, If I change my mind and it's been a short while since I grabbed it, I walk my ass back and put it away. But my biggest thing is budgeting properly. If you can't add it together in your head, have the calculator app open and just type in a rounded up number for each one(the cost is 5.48, round it to 6 in the calculator), than assume five-ten additional dollars for tax. It's really simple and does more than just help yourself.

Hall-cart does donate food, but they donate the food that is getting close to expiration. This means if people didn't grab what they didn't need, or simply returned food to it's shelf, that's potentially one more thing that will get to families who are in need.

It may seem small, and I get that sometimes you honestly expected to buy it, but know what you have funds-wise, plan while shopping, ask yourself before heading up the the check out "if I'm short on money, what am I going to put aside?" If it's just a box meal, cereal, or can food your fine. That gets re-stocked. If it's frozen peas, meat, cheese, yogurt, milk, it will be in the garbage at the end of the day. 
If you unexpectedly can't afford something and it is frozen/cold, and you happen to have someone shopping with you, send them to put it back (as long as it hasn't been in your cart for too long, chilled foods like unfrozen/uncooked meats and dairy is half an hour or so, frozen is an hour at most, less if it's dairy like icecream.) 

Another simple thing, is informing others.

Edit: so I guess some "hall-cart" branches don't do this, but ours did, we didn't have employees who would run then to the fridges, and we were told it was policy not to put possible dethawed or warm food on the shelves do to health risk. But either way, there are hall-carts that do. I'd say check if your able, but either way they may or may not and it doesn't hurt to be sure

Ive answered many, and plan to answer more, no it's not all branches, so far it seems to be the minority. I'd say ask a friend who works at your local chain, or just avoid turning away frozen foods over dry. Or don't bother cause like I said, many employees have informed me that the opposite happens, which I'm glad to hear xD 

I know food doesn't go bad after being out for a bit, I didn't say I believed it, but that is what I've been told by management in the ordeal when I mentioned how we could possibly just toss it in a cart to be thrown. I would walk things back when I could, but as one of two of the only cashier's working after 3 am, until 7am we didn't have many a chance. But when I had the chance I would

No I didn't rudely inform people of this at a hard time where they were choosing what food to put back. I only informed people, in a kind tasteful way, when they did this every couple days, with five to ten products, and chose makeup, junk food, non-necessties over the frozen items every time. 

Sorry if I can't reply to everyone! This post has more comments than I expected.!

Edit: next morning. Jeez this has blown up. But in a great way. Lots of people say that their store doesn't and that they have designated employees to do this, or even freezers at their checkouts! Awesome! But I have gotten many comments saying that what I've claimed happens at my store, happens at theirs as well. So it looks like hall-carts way of dealing with this is based on amount of employees. Mine was understaffed and so we're the others I've seen. Either way, hallcarts do this. Some don't, but some do. I've also gotten comments that some other store brands do this as well, like Marget, but majority of stores do not! Which I'm glad for.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/cy1nf2/
author:Llodgar
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:7469
numComments:413
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True