title:
YSK that if you are struggling with depression that your hormones may be out of balance, especially testosterone.

content:
Disclaimer: I am not saying that this is the answer for everyone or that depression can always be solved by fixing hormone imbalances. While this is personal experience for me, there is plenty of scientific evidence that accompanies this. Testosterone is more likely a cause in males, but other hormones in females can cause the same side effects. 

TLDR at bottom

I have struggled with depression for awhile now. This included fatigue, difficulty sleeping, and negative thoughts about life in general. Everything just seemed dark and gloomy. 

I recently went to my doctor to express these concerns. We had previously tested for things like Vitamin D levels, thyroid function, and iron levels. All of which can especially effect fatigue and sleep. I was and am currently on an SSRI. This doesn't help with the fatigue and especially sex drive. My SO did not appreciate the no sex thing. We had sex maybe 2 times in the last 3 months?

 Because of this I did some more blood tests for hormones. Specifically prolactin and testosterone. 
Lo and behold I had high prolactin and low testosterone. 

After seeing my endocrinologist and doing more blood tests, I started testosterone replacement therapy and the change in my mood, sleep, and energy levels has been AMAZING. I forgot what it was like to wake up and actually be awake. 

Below is one such study done discussing the link between testosterone and depression. 

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/m/pubmed/9919317/

Edit: 
Source: Article above (and thousands like it!) and Im a pre med student with a bachelor's in Human Biology and emphasis in neuroscience. 

TLDR: Low testosterone in males can have drastic impacts on mood, energy, libido(sex drive), and even sleep quality.

Edit2: I should have titled this, "...and solutions you have tried are not working, you're hormones my be out of balance." 
Again, NOT saying this IS the cause of all depression. I had tried many things and nothing was working(FOR 3 YEARS!) This ended up being the solution. Talk to your doctor and ask for hormone panels in your bloodwork if you suspect this!

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/cy95um/
author:Almost_Mature
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:6697
numComments:498
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True