title:
YSK that when merging lanes with a truck, you need to make sure there's a minimum of 5 car lengths between you and the truck. Moreso if you know you're going to brake, or in inclimate weather.

content:
This is a mistake I've made before some one made me aware of it. And I see so many ppl doing this it makes me cringe. And my driver's ed course didn't cover it, my wife's didn't.

Trucks have a heavy load behind them. They are aware of that, which is why they leave plenty of room in front of them from the car in front of them. If they need to break for any reason, that cushion keeps everyone safe. When you invade that space after you pass a truck, you cause the truck to need to slow down to adjust their cushion. Unless you plan to immediately floor it, you have created a domino effect, because the car behind the truck now has to slow down, or get in another lane. Everyone complains about traffic, but this is what can cause traffic. 

If the weather is bad, that truck needs the room even moreso, and extra room. Be aware that you may want to leave 8 car lengths between you and the truck. 

The worst is those that see everyone is breaking, so merge lanes to break. In front of a truck. Because the room is there, right? The truck needs that room! He cannot stop as fast as you, and you are cutting off his ability to stop. This can cause you to be rear ended, by a semi. Or the semi can lose control trying to overcompensate. Now you have an overturned semi. Because you needed to be one precious car length closer in crawling traffic.

So, just be mindful when on the highway. Just because there's room in front of the truck for you to get in, doesn't mean you should merge in. Be mindful and respectful of the truck's distance rules. They are not cars, do not work like cars. If there's inclimate weather or you know you can't floor it to give the truck space because of traffic, air on the side of caution and don't merge.

Edit: A commenter pointed out that this also includes busses, and even smaller trucks, and any car/pick-up/SUV with a trailer hauling somethin. Obviously distance varies, but I would say if you think you have enough space, leave more space, and even more for a semi or bus.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/dn48uc/
author:Sarcastic_Troll
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:1677
numComments:98
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True