title:
LPT: When considering to move a loved one into a nursing home, take into consideration the appearance of residents finger nails. If they are clean and well kept, that's a good sign of quality care. That can make your decision easier knowing they are well taken care of.

content:
Moving a family member into a nursing home this weekend. I asked why they chose the place they did, and was told from my aunt "because the nails were clean and it shows the staff cares about the people".

Edit- For all the "wow, yeah let's only look at nails to determine care"...

Noticing the appearance of nails is a very quick, non confrontational way to see if the staff pays attention to something that takes a quick minute to do. Obviously, it shouldn't be the only or most important aspect of making such a huge decision.

Residents have their rights and that must always be the best way to think and approach care but if they're dirty or have poop underneath the nails, that becomes a health/safety issue. Eating food while poop is on/underneath nails shows that proper and quality of care isn't being done. 

Also, yes I understand some people/culture says you must take care of your family. But there are times that you just need extra help or need to move them to a facility that will keep them safe. So for an example, your mother has severe alzheimers and likes to exit seek. So you buy cameras, alarms, sleep in the same room, etc.. you had just gotten off work and work was extremely stressful/busy so you go to bed a little earlier than normal because you are so tired. You get your mother ready to lay down as well and everything is going well that night, until your mother gets up and starts wandering around the house but you have no idea because you're just sleeping so well. She finds the door to outside but the alarms malfunction and now she is outside in the middle of the night, and it's 0* outside. You wake up in the morning, to find she's not in bed. You start looking around the house and find the door is open, you find her outside, dead, frozen cold. Cases like that happen more often than you think, maybe not the same way but things like that happen. It's not "throwing" someone away or to prison. Are there instances that, that happens? Of course and it's awful. But having peace of mind that your mother will be safe is often the number 1 decision to consider LTC.

Thank you all for the comments and stories, I enjoyed reading them. And I apologize for the terrible grammar mistakes. Sorry y'all.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/dtuvdq/
author:SxScott
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:10305
numComments:342
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True