title:
LPT: Always get a 2nd opinion on anything medical before making big decisions

content:
My SO had a cancer scare during a routine check up, her doctor felt she may have had cancer. They did a biopsy and told us it was early stage cancer and suggested surgery. We trusting her doctor agreed.

She had the surgery, surgery was a success and then complications from surgery. After several months of significant complications we finally decided to see another doctor, we went to see a specialist with her medical records.  

The specialist was shocked to find out we had gone into surgery so fast. The specialist explained that although she did have cancerous cells it was very early stages, and it would take 10-20 yrs for this cancer to turn into anything serious and in about a 1/3 of all cases at this stage of the cancer often times the body will handle it without any medical intervention (therefore avoiding complications from surgery) he further added that even if the cancer didn't start to clear up by itself, he would have started with medication which also has a very high success rate...and finally if all else fails he would have performed the surgery. He advised us with his course of action she still had like a 99% chance of success as this cancer was very treatable. He said had we gone that route, there is a high probability she could have avoided all the complications and costs associated with it.

He told us had we come to him he'd of recommended we do 4 month check ups as he monitors it, and said he wouldn't even consider surgery within the first 18-24 months. As since this cancer is so slow growing and often times clears up by itself or with medication there was no need to jump into surgery. 

So always get another 2nd opinion on anything medical, and I would highly suggest seeing a specialist in whatever field your dealing with had we done so we'd have saved ourselves a significant sum of money plus the frustration.

I would like to add the specialist has successfully dealt with many of her complications.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/e6a56w/
author:PJExpat
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1346
numComments:113
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True