title:
YSK The teeth on your top and bottom jaw should not be touching.

content:
Maybe I'm the one who has been in the dark here but this is a completely serious post. Your teeth should only come in contact during eating, talking, or other times when your jaw is not resting. Otherwise, your teeth should never be touching. (This did get removed from LPT after a couple hours with 35 comments but I understand why.)

I've always thought that your teeth should rest against each other when your jaw is relaxed. I have a slightly crooked jaw which makes that a bit hard for me personally. I could never find a totally comfortable position to keep my jaw in and it's always been a bit of a nuisance. I would even find myself clinching a bit, especially while working, driving, or otherwise doing something I am concentrated on. From what I understand this not correct and can lead to many things including sore muscles and damaged teeth. 

Apparently, the proper way to handle your jaw when not in use is to have your tongue against the roof of your mouth, slightly forward like your trying make the "n" noise while your teeth are close together but not touching. 

I've been making an effort to do this for about a week now and it has been borderline live changing for me. I am no longer trying to find a comfortable position for my jaw to rest because it just hangs out now. Not sure if anyone else can share my experience but I wanted to make this post just in case. It does take a lot of conscious effort at first but it quickly becomes natural and I now wonder how and why I did what I did before.

https://haydendentistry.com/managing-jaw-dysfunction/

Edit: Thank you guys, I really did not expect this feedback. A lot of you have brought up the link I put in the post and I must say, I should have used a different one. Some of the things further into it about not eating hard foods and such I dont necessarily agree with. There are so many other sources I could have used but specifically to what I address in my post, they all say almost the exact same thing. If you google "how should your jaw rest" you should get countless sources. That's were I started

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/edytkr/
author:LartFicker
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:6557
numComments:414
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True