title:
LPT: When you receive a hospital bill, ask them for an itemized bill and it will be much cheaper

content:
Example: You get an expensive bill for a $1,000 unfortunately. U.S. healthcare really shouldn’t be so expensive in the first place...but the first thing you should do is call and ask for a review of the level of care, and while on the phone the next thing you do is ask for an itemized bill with every single charge. 

They make bills unnecessarily expensive because in the backend of things, they rack up ridiculous charges like $37 for a bandaid. Once you call and request what I’ve mentioned, they’ll knock all the BS charges right off before sending you the itemized statement.
 
Some bills can go down from $500 to $45. It may not be that drastic for everyone, but many can be reduced by several hundreds of dollars.

If you or anyone you know has been to the ER recently, tell them to try this. It can majorly help!

You can try to even further this by looking for medical debt reconciliation companies. They make money by cutting down on your debt, even in cases like these.

If you have insurance, you can contact your insurance company and ask for a breakdown of what was billed as well.  Most services you were billed for likely weren’t even done. So yes ALWAYS ask for an itemized bill, they get scared and remove a whole bunch of items!

You can also apply for medical financial assistance (MFA). Every hospital has it, you just need to submit financial info and they will pay it all or half. Sometimes you can even get medicine and visits waived for 6 months or more. 

Another thing you can do for extra help is ask to apply for charity. The charity department will ask questions about your income situation however, but many people do lie about their income. There’s a chance you’ll get approved and your account is adjusted to zero balance.

EDIT: this may be a bit simplified and there’s some contradictory statements in the comments, but I don’t think you should be discouraged from trying it because it has 100% WORKED for many... such as people in this thread saying it reduced their bill firsthand, hospital employees confirming this, genuine comments on twitter of people sharing their experience with it and how much it lowered their bill, and other videos of people explaining their situation showing gratitude for having learned this info because it saved them a lot of money... no “propaganda” or angrily fueled desire to spread misinformation. Many of these people didn’t get much recognition for sharing their experience either, it’s not like they’re just lying to go viral. They’re not all wrong.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/ehnjae/
author:VerySlump
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:54708
numComments:3009
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True