title:
LPT: If someone you know suffered a great loss and you want to show support, here are some do's and don'ts

content:
I lost my wife a few weeks ago and received a whole lot of support messages. This may be a bit subjective, but seeing how I felt about most of these, and what I am going through since, I now know what I will and won't do when something similar happens to someone I know, so I wanted to share:

The first contact, right after you get the news, is important because it shows you care, but don't try to find the right words, or worse, don't state that there is no words that can ease their pain. This is obvious, and you are the 1000th one to say that. They know. They just need to know you're there.

Do not, in any case, state that if they need anything, they can call you. Yes, I need to talk to someone after the kids are asleep, I need the hedge trimmed, I need someone to look after the kids on Thursday, I need a second income to keep paying my bills, I need a friend with benefit to compensate for my brutal lack of physical interactions. Don't make them draw the line between what's reasonable and what's not. Don't make them chose who to call among the fifty people that were this vague in case they actually have a need they find reasonable.  If you think you can bring something specific, be specific. They need to know you are the one to call in this specific situation.

If the specific thing you have to offer is just to be available for a phone call when they need someone to talk to, then it is not enough to say it. One hundred people told me that I can call them whenever I need to talk, some of them specified "even in the middle of the night". It may be just me, but when I am trying to go on with my life and receive calls from different persons a couple of times a day, then I feel less alone. If I get nothing for a couple of days, then this situation is really depressing, and having a list of a hundred people I can interrupt in their daily lives to suck some comfort off, does not help at all. So just call them from time to time, weeks and even months after the fact. Show you think about them, don't make them call you out of despair.

&amp;#x200B;

EDIT: before I go to bed, I just want to clarify a couple of things that induce misunderstandings that keep coming to my mailbox:

This is not a rant. I do not resent people that did the things I listed. As I stated in my first paragraph, I experienced the effect they had on me, I think I have learned things from this, I would like to share. I thought I was clear about this, but every support message I got was comforting. Some were just much more useful than others. 

The "Do not, in any case" intro is clearly horribly worded. Yes. My bad. What I mean is, when you say something so vague, it doesn't have any more effect than a simple "sorry for your loss". If you are genuinely willing to help, then this does not bring the message across.

The FWB part. Ok, I was illustrating how "anything" is completely useless in this context, because you make the person draw his own line between what is reasonable and what is not. To illustrate how this line was completely subjective, I gave several examples to illustrate the fact that you had to draw a line somewhere. Starting from something completely reasonable, finishing with something I thought everybody would consider unreasonable in this context. Three of these five examples are completely made up. I was just making a point.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/eilqnx/
author:Yatopia
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:35871
numComments:1373
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True