title:
LPT: Teach your kids the anotomical names for their parts

content:
This blew up in a comment, so I'm starting to believe it deserves its own thread. I tried to link it here but Reddit is being Reddit.

&lt;~&gt;

I work as a security guard in a family shelter here in NYC. About three days ago, this little boy comes up to me during my briefing. He tells me in front of my supervisor and the regional director (I have no idea why RD was here, I started less than a month ago) and tells me "Daddy licks my gummies" my supervisor chimes in "Then tell him to buy you a new bag."

This doesn't sit right with me, so I ask the little boy to point to his gummies. Kid points to his crotch.

After briefly investigating, we get the kid out of the area and call the cops, 10 minutes later, cops are here, dad is getting arrested, I'm on the phone with momma bear and an officer. My supervisor is being chewed out by the RD.

The kid passed me 10 minutes ago with a big smile, told me he wants to be a security guard. My heart melted. 

Momma bear I currently filing a restraining order against dad. I gave her my P.i buddies business card.

Moral of the story, teach your kids the anatomical names for their parts. Had a less intelligent guard been on duty (And I hate to say I'm outnumbered 15:1) this might have gone unnoticed.

In the time it took me to write this, another little boy in the building has come to me with a similar claim. Excuse me while I call my supervisor.



&lt;~&gt;


Edit: Wow. This blew up more than the comment it originated from! It's now my highest upvotes comment/post on Reddit.

For those of you who may be wondering, pedodad has at least 3 more kids making accusations against him, all in the same building. Safe to say he'll be gone for a long time.

Thanks for the gold, silver, and the guilding.

Edit 2: Holy crap! 10k Upvotes! Thanks so much everyone! I go into work at 3pm EST, If theres any more info, ill share it here at 11:30ish, that's when i get off. Fixed a few grammar and spelling mistakes on my part.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/elme9h/
author:NycHomelessman
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:13534
numComments:732
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True