title:
YSK Overdosing on anti-depressants is not easy or peaceful, it is extremely painful.

content:
Figured I should start with why people should know this before I get downvoted to hell.

The way I see it, the easier suicide appears to be, the more likely is an individual is to see it as a viable option. I figure if more people know it isn't the "slowly drift off to sleep forever" kind of thing people see in movies, hear in songs, they might not be as likely to give it a try.

So, although I know every medication is different, I'm going to share my experience so that you don't try this shit and go through the same hell I did.

First thing you should know, modern anti-depressants are designed to be difficult to overdose on. They can still kill you, but they are MUCH more likely to cause extreme discomfort, pain, and possible long term damage that you'll have to add to the list of shit that's wrong with you. I was fortunate enough to have no such long term side effects. That said, I did not get off easy.

So, first thing that happens after you take the 40 something pills to overdose is you have what I can only describe as a post-suicide clarity. You are no longer worrying about life because, well, you're pretty sure its over. Enjoy that feeling while it lasts, it is the most relaxed I've felt in over a decade, and it's all downhill from there.

Now that you are thinking more clearly, you will probably do what I did and call 911 (Maybe so they can save you, maybe because you figure dying in your parents house would be a bit too traumatic for them). So, the ambulance comes and you get in. 

At this point, you feel you have to apologize to the EMTs, who you know are working their asses off trying to keep your dumb ass alive, and how traumatic this might be for them. They ask you a few questions, try to cheer you up a bit, they're nice.

You get into the hospital, and instead of pumping your stomach, what they do is have you drink charcoal. Now, when you hear "get him a cup of charcoal", you might think that's medical short term for something... nope. They get you a disposable cup filled with what I can only describe as a THICK charcoal smoothy... like, if you had a straw it would stand up in it thick. You've got to drink the charcoal... so, fighting your gag reflex, you empty a cup of fireplace sweepings into your mouth and try your best to swallow it. It tastes worse than you think, and is like trying to drink mud. You somehow manage to get it down... then, they hand you another one...

After you finish your two cups of charcoal, you get hooked up to an IV and wheeled into a ward. Now, you are not feeling so good after your two cups of black death, and the effects of the drugs are starting to kick in. While your parents hug/smack you, you do your best to apologize to them, as you don't want things left badly when you die (which you are probably still fairly confident of). 

So, eventually you are just lying there, and you start to feel the drugs kick in. The charcoal of course has lessened the effects somewhat, but you start to feel restless... like you need to move. This is difficult considering you're in a hospital bed with an IV, so you resort to turning your head back and forth every few seconds like a crazy person.

You start to feel more and more tense, at which point your heart rate starts to climb. They park a crash cart outside your room and your moms crying as every muscle in your body starts to flex. Now, you weren't warned about this, so your fingernails are starting to literally dig into your skin are you get a full body cramp.

This lasts for about... 6-8 hours. You go from "feeling the burn" to feeling like you've run two marathons and can't stop running. Your heart rate is sitting up at around 300, and they can't really give you much to help because the reason you are in here in the first place is too much medication... so no pain killers, and a little muscle relaxant. 

So, once your body gradually starts to relax, you would think things are over... nope. Your body has been flexing its muscles for 8 hours straight. Your body is sore, and you have difficulty sitting up, let alone walking. You try to piss in a container they give you, a good deal of which ends up on you because, well, you're not in the best condition at the moment. 

You are instructed to try and sleep, which you manage to a certain extent, your parents trying to sleep in hospital chairs next to you (less successfully). You feel horrible, both due to the physical strain you've just been through, and for frightening the hell out of your parents. Over the next few hours people visit, it's extremely awkward, and you spend the next few days unable to walk (and occasionally pissing on yourself). You don't fully recover for 3-4 weeks.

Now that that is over, things aren't back to normal, because you've single handedly given your parents the worst day of their life, and they are going to watch you like a hawk (understandably). You get to watch people blame themselves for what happened, have literal break downs, and all because of your own actions. 

tl;dr: Suicide by anti-depressants is probably one of the most painful things you'll ever experience, and it puts your family and loved ones through hell. Go to a doctor, get help, check yourself into a mental hospital. It is a lot easier to get help then to put yourself, and everyone else, through that shit.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/emqvvk/
author:Privateaccount84
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:2949
numComments:224
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True