title:
YSK if you have children, even a newborn, you should make legal arrangements for their care in case something happens to you.

content:
I had my own paralegal buisness and one of the things we dealt with daily was wills/estates.  We also received far too many calls about someone passing who left NO instructions, NO will and no information at all, looking on what the next step would be.

The most common reason for those calls was because children were involved and now what.

Even if you are married and have significant family you assume will take care of it...don't assume. Life changes in a heartbeat. I could tell story after story about children left in foster care because of parents lack of planning.  Or of people losing houses, vehicles, entire life savings, just everything.

No one wants to think about end of life. It's dark, it's uncomfortable, it's boring.  But lack of planning has caused nightmarish situations that can go on for years after your death.

The minute you find out you are pregnant, you should contact an attorney/paralegal for creating a will and get life insurance.

You cannot presume your spouse will automatically get everything. That is not true. An attorney/paralegal can advise you best on this and your local/state laws.

Do not forget bank accounts, and passwords. Not for social media, but for access to a lot of things. Safe deposit boxes. Location of documents, making sure your social security number is available for survivor benefits.

This is twice as important if you have children and you are divorced. Your former spouse will not have access to anything if you have not specified it legally and in writing. You have a vintage Shelby you want your 9 year old to have when he turns 16? Put it in legal writing or it will likely be sold, or have no legal title or be uninsurable.  Have a collection of vintage toys your daughter would love, even if she's only two now?  Put it in writing, because it could be sold, tossed or fought over.  

Sorry to be dark, but another thread made me think of this. Most people don't think about it until they are older. Or they presume, "eh, my spouse will get everything" or "I don't have anything so what the heck".  It matters. Far too many nightmares have ensued because of lack of planning over simple things.

Take an afternoon to plan, take another to sit down and put it in writing and have it properly notarized and witnessed.  Your loved ones will thank you.

More information, with some more information available at the bottom of the attached article: 

https://thelawdictionary.org/article/the-9-most-commonly-asked-questions-about-last-wills-and-testaments/


EDIT: I didn't realize this would get so much attention, but I am really glad it did. It's important. One of the most important things you will do.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/eob76n/
author:BlueStoneArt
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:18899
numComments:351
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True