title:
LPT: When you finish explaining something, don't ask "do you have any questions?" ask "what questions do you have?"

content:
I learned this years and years ago when I used to teach SAT prep classes and it's stuck with me since then. I remember the first time one of bosses shared this with me I was skeptical, but now it's what I always do, and it makes a huge difference!
When you ask "do you have any questions?" it pre-supposes that the person doesn't have any questions. It's like saying "you don't have any questions right? because if you did, you're stupid". It's even worse if you are in a position of authority over the person your explaining something to (i.e. you're a teacher, a supervisor, etc...)
When you ask "what questions do you have?" it's like telling the person "I expect you have questions, it's ok to ask for clarification". It will totally change the responses you get, and the effectiveness of your teaching.
I'm a doctor, and I frequently need to explain something to someone that I understand better than they do. It's very easy to forget that a patient who's just come to the hospital to have a baby may have only had 1 or 2 babies, while you have gone through the process of caring for a pregnant woman thousands of times. You may think it's just another normal day, but for them, this could be something they've never done.
I see my colleagues all the time fall into a trap where they use big words, don't explain things in terms their patients can understand, and then intimidate them away from asking questions.
No matter what it is you're explaining, remember that if you are the one teaching or explaining something, you're doing so because you know more than the person you are talking to, and so it's only natural they will have questions. A very simple change in how your phrase your statements will totally change the response you get.

Edit: Thanks for the silver! I've never had a post blow up like this. I'm glad some of ya'll found this helpful :)

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/eqmgsb/
author:taaltrek
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:5456
numComments:94
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True