title:
YSK that if you’re looking for work but don’t have a college degree, many engineering firms have field teams that perform specific field tests that don’t require degrees. These jobs can pay well and lead to certifications that can be a career building block.

content:
For instance, I work in the field of Cathodic Protection. We are the people that ensure underground metallic pipelines do not corrode and fail. The industry is huge (and growing) and no one seems to know about it.  I began as an entry level field tech just taking soil samples and now 6 years later, landed a 6 figure job with 3 certifications I’ve completed along the way (no college degree). This is obviously anecdotal but the fact is that there are many ways in the trades specifically that one can build a rewarding career. I’ve told every new hire who shows up and thinks this is just a job that you will absolutely get out of this, what you put in to it. Feel free to DM me if you’re looking for work, I’ve made a lot of great contacts and can try my best to help out.

EDIT: I’m genuinely happy those who have reached out are interested. I’ll address every message I get (as time allows) and try my best to help!

EDIT 2: Thanks for the Silver! I’m working on responding but I do have to get back to work. I’ll be addressing more messages/comments later.

EDIT 3: Again, thank you all for the responses and silvers and coins, and gold! I don’t know what I was expecting but it’s amazing to read everyone’s story and I’m so impressed with your grit. Job hunting can be soul crushing and rejection can get old. You have to keep going, keep looking. Think of new ways to market yourself or how you can apply your talents to the job.  For those of you switching careers, you will have your work cut out for you but you can absolutely do it! Phone is sitting at 5% now and I’ve got a ton more messages to get through. Will continue this in the morning. Goodnight!

EDIT 4: So the mods deleted this post but if you saved it, please DM me for more information. I’ve got a great google drive folder I can share with TONS of educational material.

TO THOSE WHO HAVE DM'ED ME...THEY ARE NOT ALLOWING ME TO RESPOND. PLEASE SEND ALL INQUIRIES AS A MESSAGE AND I CAN GET YOU A LOT OF INFORMATION! THANKS


https://www.enr.com/toplists/2019-Top-500-Design-Firms1

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/etb1wx/
author:Ulrich_Jackson
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:26018
numComments:784
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True