title:
YSK If you are feeling anxiety, depression or lack of sleep, you may want to take a look at your hormone levels.

content:
I have hipotyrodism and lingual thyroid, it was diagnosed when I was 18. Before that I had dark episodes of depression and anxiety, to the point of having suicidal thoughts.

Then, my dad (who's a doctor) thought that it would be wise to check my thyroid levels to see if something was off, because the way that I felt were common symptoms of a hormonal imbalance. And there it was: a crazy amount of hormones were going bananas and making me feel like the lowest piece of garbage, and once that they gave me treatment I started to feel much better, I only needed to address the mental habits that were created during the low states.

Now, after 12 years, feeling great but I still have to visit every once in a while the endocrinologist for him to adjust my dose to prevent these symptoms to pup up.

So maybe it's a nice option to consider checking if there's something not working properly in your body in case you are feeling terrible and thinkin that there's something wrong with your self.

[hypothyroidism ](https://www.healthline.com/health/hypothyroidism/symptoms-treatments-more)

Edit:
Thanks a lot for the medals and the  people who have contributed to expand information about other issues that can have a similar symptoms. 

 Check with your doctor and tell him /her about your symptoms, if he does not suggest it you can bring it to the table and ask for a lab order to check hormones, vitamins, and other important things just to scratch that off.
Do not automedicate yourself, hormones and many other things have to have a specific dosageand medication, it's not like taking a couple of Tylenol. Be very careful about it because it can give you other serious problems.

Take care of yourself, a right diagnosis can go a long way and be a life change when we are treated correctly

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/eth6o9/
author:Fandina
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:4547
numComments:254
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True