title:
LPT: if you have depression and/or other mental illnesses, executive functioning issues, tend to be messy, etc., get a dish bin (or 2!) for your room.

content:
I use a restaurant busser bin, but any sturdy plastic container (I’ve used a bucket meant for yard work) works great. 

I have bipolar disorder, ADHD and a few head injuries from gymnastics. The combination of forgetfulness, fogginess, demotivation and physical symptoms can lead to dishes and garbage accumulating in my room. My family and friends relentlessly shamed and teased me for being “dirty and lazy” to the point where i just accepted that i was disgusting and didn’t know how to fix it. i saw another person post about having drank out of a moldy can by mistake and asking for advice on keeping up with meal cleanup, and they shared that they had executive dysfunction. This is something i never realized i had, so i asked my therapist about it. In general, it causes problems in behavioral, emotional and cognitive areas. Symptoms range in severity and can result from different health problems. 

Or, you just might be messy! Which is fine, no one is perfect and you don’t need to feel ashamed. 

I took home the skills from my restaurant job to my mess. (seriously, just throwing everything in a dish bin). Plates, silverware, napkins, cans, bottles. Aaaand just like at my job, *everything* went in. Mostly full cans? Don’t know how old they are? Moldy plates? Yes! The beauty of the dish bin is it can handle a lot of weight and is leak-proof/washable.

My family still makes fun of me, so i wait until they’re busy or I’m home alone to bring everything down. Then i can separate the garbage and recyclables into their respective areas and I’m left with the remaining dishes. I’ll scrape the food from the plates and drain liquid if needed. And then finally, yet another reason i wont shut up about the dish bin, is because i can drizzle some soap in and soak everything in hot water. 

It takes me 10-20 minutes, depending on how much I’ve accumulated. Sometimes i only have the energy to grab a few things, and sometimes i can do it all. Honestly, it can get gross, but this has made purging my “depression nest” less stressful over the years. I hope this is helpful to someone! :)

Edit: i just want to add that this is a temporary fix for when I’m doing particularly badly. My room isn’t a dumpster fire all the time, but this time of year is when I’m most depressed and things can pile up. I have the bin on stand by for when i DO need it, i don’t use it as a sink 24/7. It helps to clean up an overwhelming, and possibly embarrassing mess efficiently. I’m so happy many of you feel like this is going to be helpful ♥️

Edit 2: i finally showed a real life person (my partner) this post and my reddit username. We had a really productive dialogue and it was the positive comments here that encouraged me to open up. Thank you all and a special shout out to my boy for being understanding and loving.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/ezb1wh/
author:honestlywhatthefuck1
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:6547
numComments:323
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True