title:
YSK: A "don't be that customer" guide

content:
EDIT: I wasn't working on the day I posted this and it isnt some angry rant. I've seen similar posts on other platforms recently and decided to make something similar as a bit of fun with elements of truth. I actually enjoy my job and I'm referring to weird, dumb and downright annoying things (some) customers do from a retail worker's perspective. Writing from UK so some of this may differ where you are but feel free to elaborate.

YSK that people who work in retail stores are regular people and are not there to serve ONLY you.

Many store dont own their carpark so if someone is parking in a disabled spot without a badge there isnt really anything the store can do but hope they get fined.

Staff dont know where everything is... if you ask us to help you find something we usually just look at the big signs above the isles (hint: the meat is in the meat isle.

Seriously, PLEASE READ THE SIGNS! They are usually very helpful.

If you can clearly see someone is on their break dont ask them to help you... They'll usually help you because they are obliged to but just know it comes out of their well deserved (unpaid) break.

If you use the stores mobility scooter, please put them on charge when you're done and don't take them outside the store as others need to use them and they are not insured outside... ask for assistance if you struggle getting to your car. (Remember that scooters are a free service and be respectful).

Security are exactly that not receptionists... They are not allowed to leave the doors unattended even to help a customer.

WATCH YOUR KIDS!! Its insane how many parents dont keep an eye on their children then get irate with security and customer service when they cant find their child... You are the irresponsible adult not us.

Don't be abusive to staff in any way... You can be denied service and security may ban you from the store.

If you think 10 minutes before closing time is a great time to do your whole weeks shopping you will be disappointed. We want to go home and all staff on the shop floor chip in to tell you to go to the checkouts.

If you're the last person to leave the store YSK you are being judged by literally everyone. You are a first class Ahole and the main reason that nobody is going home on time... F*** you.

If the store is closed you are not coming in end of. I dont care if you just need 3 things, 2 things, 1 thing. We're not insured to have you on site the minute we close. Also I'm not going home any later because YOU didnt remember that one item you needed earlier. Bye bye.

Asking staff to look in the back is just giving them an excuse to send that text or read that notification. Because if it not on shop floor its probably not in the (not so) magical stock room either. If it is then good luck finding it.

If you are asked for a receipt by security it deosnt mean you're being accused it's a precautionary measure which you're agreeing to this subjection by entering the store. You wont be asked if we know you're stealing.

Thefts come out the staff's bonuses and large stores claim it back on insurance. The store can afford it but the hardworking staff could do with that extra money.

The customer is NOT always right... In fact you are almost always wrong. Don't try and tell me some made up store policy or legal obligation to get your own way.

We do a hella good job at pretending we care about your problem and acting like were in a great mood when you're being an Ahole. We usually bitch about you've gone but occasionally we may be snappy in front of you because we are humans with emotions not robots.

Can't think of anymore off the top of my head but feel free to add more.

TLDR: When you shop in retail stores be considerate and don't be an Ahole.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/f17zak/
author:Its_An_Outraage
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:3356
numComments:648
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True