title:
YSK your insurance company might try to deny or delay benefits and you can break through the BS by requesting your policy

content:
I deal with insurance companies for a living. Adjusters often deny or delay benefits. For instance, I just had a Medpay adjuster try to delay benefits because the medical bills didn’t have CPT codes. I demanded the policy, which my client has an absolute right to have since it’s his own damn policy, and the adjuster just paid the benefits instead. I figured there wasn’t anything in the policy requiring CPT codes so I pushed back and the adjuster immediately caved.

Always ask for your policy, which is a written contract. That defines your and your insurer’s rights and obligations. It says when you’re entitled to benefits and what hoops you have to jump through to get them.

Edit: I've seen many folks mention the same thing so I'll address some of it here.

(1) Before I went to sleep a guy told me to clarify a particular point and I should have.  Sorry.  My example about CPT codes is for Medpay, which can also be known as PIP, which is a no-fault coverage for bodily injuries that you or someone in your car sustains and is an add-on product for car insurance in my state. If this came up for you, I'd say there's a decent chance my tactic would get your Medpay benefits paid specifically (if you're in my state, at least) because of the type of policy this is.  This definitely might not work for health insurance. My advice about getting the policy is universal, though. You absolutely have a right to it in health insurance situations, even though it might not do you any good, especially in self-funded ERISA situations. Those plans are governed by federal law and claim denials are, to a large degree, within the plan administrator's discretion.  However, there is a federal statute (29 USC § 1132) that imposes penalties on the plan admin if they don't give you your plan docs within a pretty short period - 10 days I believe - which is substantially shorter than the 30 days provided by my state's law on when policy info must be provided.

(2) Another example of when your policy can come in handy is for recorded statements.  When you seek your own insurance benefits, your insurer may want to do a recorded statement. (Someone else's insurer cannot require this of you until after you file suit.)  In fire loss claims, for instance, they may want to do a formal examination under oath ("EUO") with a court reporter in what looks very much like a discovery deposition. Your adjuster may even say they have the right to talk to anyone they want. That is usually false. The policies I've seen require only recorded statements and EUOs of named insureds. I strongly suggest you lawyer up if at all possible before giving a recorded statement to your own insurer. I never allow recorded statements of clients for someone else insurer until suit is filed and discovery rules require me to do so. Lawyering up is more likely a possibility where you can get an attorney with a contingency fee arrangement.  For property damage claims, it's probably less feasible so you'll have to be very careful about what you say to ensure it's 100% consistent with other statements you've made that are documented in writing, i.e. to medical providers or police.

(3) In my CPT example, I had already requested, paid for as a contingency case expense, and provided the medical records (OV notes and whatnot) and detailed billing for everything I submitted to the Medpay adjuster. Actually, my assistant had tried to get billing with CPT codes and couldn't. Instead of go toe-to-toe with doctors' offices with whom I'd like to maintain good relationships, I told the Medpay adjuster that we wouldn't keep looking for CPT codes until he sent me the policy that indicated those had to be provided before Medpay benefits were paid out. The CPT codes themselves were literally the only thing missing. There was no doubt what treatment was performed or that the treatment was related to the MVA. I'm sure the adjuster just needed the CPT codes for an internal purpose and was having the same trouble getting them that my office was having. My point was that we were only going to do what the insured was required to do before getting the benefits that he paid for.

(4) For folks calling me an ambulance chaser, lol, fair enough. I'd like to clarify one thing about how I handle Medpay,   Many attorneys I know in my state do not handle Medpay claims. The contingency percentage that I charge is for the bodily injury portion of the claim. I handle Medpay claims for no additional charge as a routine practice because, done right, it has a profoundly positive impact on the client. I take no cut of Medpay proceeds. Usually Medpay benefits are paid directly to the providers but, occasionally, the Medpay insurer will pay the money to the client for him/her to handle the bills on their own. That can be great because we can then negotiate bills to pay off with Medpay money. Again, no extra cost to the client but can put a lot more money in their pocket. When we get Medpay money, it goes into and is paid out of my trust account and I never touch a penny.

If my client has Medpay, I can get the bills paid but still pursue the at-fault insurer for the total amount of charges billed, which basically ends up looking like an increased pain and suffering award. The Medpay insurer generally cannot get reimbursed from the client (due to a subrogation rule in my state called the made whole doctrine) and the client's premiums are not supposed to go up because of a rule that says premiums cannot increase due to claims that aren't your fault.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/f44qqe/
author:notsurethisisright
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:13299
numComments:489
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True