title:
LPT: The best weapon against social anxiety is not courage, but empathy.

content:
Lifelong introvert here, who has always struggled with social anxiety and striking up conversations with new people, even though I know it is good for my personal growth.

In the last few years, my ability to engage with strangers has dramatically started to improve due to an unexpected influence - marketing books.  The more books I read by guys like Seth Godin or Donald Miller, the more I started focusing on other people and trying to understand them and how I can be valuable to them and make their day a little better.  This hasn't brought me any huge financial success, but it HAS significantly improved my ability to chat with strangers.

My guess is because trying to drum up the "courage" to go talk to a stranger is by default putting them in a somewhat adversarial position.  The question "What if they don't like me?" I used to always agonize over is very inwardly focused, defensive and egotistical.

Instead, when I started focusing more on bringing value to that other person in some small way, the mission of increasing net happiness on the planet helped me break away from my need to be "liked" at least for a few moments at a time - long enough to break the ice in new conversations and discover 9 times out of 10 that the other person has zero negative opinion about you whatsoever.  Their opinion is pretty much based on the value you bring and the amount of empathy you can express.

That's all.  Just a word of encouragement.  Best of luck!

EDIT: Wow, thank you everyone, so, so much!  The outpouring of responses over the weekend has been really encouraging.  I'm glad I could make a few people's day better!   Some asked about book specifics, so here are some of my tops.  Again, these are mostly marketing books, not prescriptive for social anxiety per se.  But they each helped me in different way to look through other people's eyes:

1. "The Like Switch" by Jack Schafer
2. "Never Split the Difference" by Chris Voss
3. "Tribes" by Seth Godin
4. "Building a StoryBrand" by Donald Miller
5. "Contagious: Why Things Catch On" by Jonah Berger

I hope these prove helpful! 

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/fb1o7g/
author:moog_phatty
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:26173
numComments:493
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True