title:
LPT: When job searching, volunteer somewhere! Six selfish reasons to give up your time for free

content:
This advice seems so obvious, but so many people don't do it, I think possibly because it's very easy to fall into depressive episodes when unemployed and having the motivation to give your time up for free can be difficult. However, volunteering offers many practical benefits and is well worth the time! Here's just a few benefits that I've come up with. 


1. Being unemployed is boring and monotonous. Volunteering means you get out of the house at a specific time and helps you to start build a routine.


2. It helps cover a gap on your CV. Employers don't like seeing large gaps on CVs, by volunteering you can create the impression of continuous work, even if you only volunteered a day a week. 


3. When you volunteer, you are treated like an employee. It can help build your confidence.


4. You can test out different types of jobs in a low risk environment. You might find some types of work you love and some you absolutely hate and you don't need to stick around if you don't love something. It means you have a better picture of which jobs you would like to apply for AND the skills to apply for the jobs you want. 


5. It helps with the loneliness. Job searching can be really isolating, volunteering can be a great way to meet new people. 


6. You have people to provide you with a reference (possibly even in the right field!). Added perk that people who run volunteer programmes are usually incredibly appreciative of people who give up their own time to help out so give really good references.


There are way more good reasons to volunteer, I have probably barely scratched the surface. Honestly I'd of recommend voluntary work to everyone who can spare the time because it's so valuable, but it's definitely especially beneficial for those who are looking for employment. 


I was unemployed for a few months before finding my current job and honestly it was one of the most soul destroying times of my life: sending off application after application and hearing nothing back; getting rejected from entry level jobs; writing the same cv out over and over again in different application forms. Volunteering was the best thing I did to improve my mental state AND find a job that I actually like. 


Best of luck out there! 


(bonus LPT: job hunting is a numbers game, send out your cv everywhere and go to interviews for jobs you don't want. Took me way too long to realise this)



Edit because I don't think I was clear: I am not suggesting that anyone volunteers full time (unless you want to, do what you want). Job hunting is incredibly time consuming, there's no way I'd have been able to volunteer full time and job search. I'm suggesting a time commitment of about a couple of hours a week. 

Also be careful of exploititive volunteer positions and unpaid internships. Unfortunately there are a lot of companies out there using volunteers instead of actually paying their staff. Stay far away from these.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/fbr9w9/
author:FulmarusGlacialis
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1067
numComments:48
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True