title:
Pandemic pro tips?

content:
Hey everyone!

Due to the _massive_ volume of tips that are being submitted due to the Covid-19 pandemic, we are creating a single post for you to add your tips to.

From this point forward, we will be removing submissions having to do with the crisis, that appear outside of this thread.

Additionally, we will be removing items IN the thread that are dangerous and/or demonstrably false.  Misinformation can, and does, get people hurt (or worse)

------------------------------------------

Editorial note:

Covid-19 has been declared a global pandemic by the WHO after having torn through Asia, Europe, The US, etc.  There is no cure.  There is no vaccine.  There is no natural immunity.  This is something that will ultimately touch everyone's lives in ways that the common flu never does.

I've seen many posts &amp; comments attempting to diminish the severity of the situation ("It's just like the flu!" "Flu kills 68000 and this has killed 20 people!" "It's a hoax!") and some things that are clearly panic - No folks, the Pandemic shits aren't a thing and toilet paper won't save you.  Wearing masks is for sick people, not the healthy ones.  Both ends of this spectrum are equally dangerous and should be avoided.

The current mantra, of the medical community, is to "flatten the curve."  This essentially means that taking some common sense steps, to limit the amount of people flooding the medical system, are the goal.  The current medical system (in the US at least) is not equipped to handle the sheer volume of people that will be looking for help in the near future, but over a lengthened timeline it is better equipped to give people a better chance at good care (flatten the curve instead of a spike).

To help do this, practice the following:

1. Wash your hands frequently.  Just running/rubbing your hands under warm, soapy water for just 20 or 30 seconds has amazing results and will go a long way to insulating you from infection.  (Really, folks... how many of you haven't been washing your hands before? eew)

2. Avoid touching your face, nose, eyes, mouth with unclean hands.  It should go without saying, that if you haven't sanitized your hands that you should avoid exposing sensitive areas to potential infection

3. Avoid large gatherings/groups.  This point may (and probably will) be enforced by your local governments.  Transmission of this, and all, virus is facilitated in large groups.  Putting yourself in the middle of 100's or 1000's of potentially infected people is a recipe for bad health.  Pay attention to the news and wait for the medical community to sound the all clear.

4. Practice social distancing (related to point 3.).  Love and life in the time of corona blows for people that crave contact :(  Try to keep some distance (6 ft recommended) in between you and others.  This simple step can help to keep yourself (and others) from getting infected.  

5. Stay home if you are sick.  This one is the hardest for those without vacation time or those that will be economically impacted with a loss of work.  Often times, the people that are least likely to have any stored sick leave or finances, are the ones that are mercilessly forced to work while sick and ultimately exposing others.  Do you part to help these people, and everyone around you, by not exposing them to your sickness.  This is an especially dire situation for the elderly as this impacts them in a massively disproportionate way

6. If you are sick, and think you need to go to the emergency room for treatment, please ***call ahead*** to find out if they have any specific direction for you.  If you do have COVID-19, you may very well infect all staff and a waiting room full of people if you don't follow proper procedure.  

Please take care of yourselves and be mindful that your actions can, and will, impact others.

I look forward to seeing what everyone comes up with that can be useful during this time :)  (I also welcome additions and corrections to the above list)

XOXO The LPT mod team

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/fhlt3l/
author:JoyousCacophony
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1010
numComments:1642
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True