title:
LPT: if you are raising a puppy right now, you should try to spend a few hours a day separated from it

content:
If you’re at home because of the current world situation, and you recently got a puppy, try taking a nap in a separate room or keeping it out of whatever constitutes your “home office” right now during working hours. If your pup gets used to you being home and available 24/7 it’s likely that it will develop some form of separation anxiety. Being physically separate and not letting up when the puppy claws at the door or whines will help it cope with being apart from you/alone.


Reposting because it got deleted for lack of adding a flair, my bad

EDIT: I have tried to respond to those asking for further advice and hope I didn’t miss anyone. That being said, I am not a vet, I don’t know your pets history, and therefore the best bet for you and your dog is to reach out to them regarding any advice or further information. Veterinarians are not just there for medical advice; they work with animals every single day and can have some seriously helpful advice, and most of the time it’s free of charge if you are already in the office for a checkup or speaking over the phone/email.

This post was intended to curb what will likely be a massive change in you and your puppies daily routine because of the outbreak. There will be yet another massive change when you go back to your old routine, perhaps back to work on a daily basis, and it’s important to consider all the affects this could have on your puppy and their progress.
I also recommend playing brain games with your dog during isolation, and also in general— look them up, they’re fun and rewarding. My dog likes hide and seek and anything involving treat rewards haha. 
Most vets (and commenters here) also recommend crate training. This is of course ideal, and better than going to another room and letting your dog claw at the door, but right now not everyone has access to a crate so just use best judgement and speak to your vet when possible. 
Thanks everyone and good luck with those little bundles of poop

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/fo9gj9/
author:drunkarthur
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:31295
numComments:605
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True