title:
LPT: For anyone considering buying their children bunnies for Easter, you probably shouldn’t.

content:
With Easter coming up (and this quarantine just making people really bored at home), I know many families will think it’s a great gift and cute idea to get their kids a pet rabbit. 

But the reality of owning and properly caring for rabbits is a LOT of work, possibly even more expensive and time consuming than owning a dog or cat. What’s even worse is once the novelty wears off, many end up throwing them in the shelter or worse, just dumping them outside. It’s really sad. If you are still considering getting a rabbit, here are some things you should know:

1.) Rabbits are prey animals. They do not like being petted or picked up. It takes a substantial amount of time to win over their trust (I’m talking months to years), so it’s not an ideal pet for young children who just want something to cuddle and love them unconditionally. They probably don’t have the patience for that and will get bored of them quickly. 

2.) They poop and pee a lot. If you’re not prepared to clean up like a hundred little poops a day, you shouldn’t get a rabbit. They can be potty trained to use a litter box but you still have to clean it out thoroughly every other day and their pee can smell kinda awful. Even with potty training you can’t expect them to be clean every single time. Poops get stuck to their bum or they accidentally kick it out of their litter box, meaning you still end up having some poop to pick up on a daily basis.

3.) Cages at pet shops are not sufficiently sized. They are way too small for them to comfortably and humanely live. They need plenty of space to hop around and exercise. Most rabbit owners recommend using a large dog exercise pen (so you have to consider if you have enough space in your home for a pen that size) or even better, letting them free roam around the house, but that leads to a whole other set of issues like rabbit-proofing your furniture and cables since they naturally like to chew. 

4.) Rabbits NEED to be spayed/neutered, and the procedure isn’t cheap. Rabbits are much better pets after they get fixed. For females, they have an extremely high chance of developing ovarian cancer if they are not fixed. For males, they are territorial, aggressive, and spray pee. The procedure ain’t cheap either. For two rabbits getting neutered, I paid close to $600 for the anesthesia, procedure, and pain medication. I paid on the high end because I went to an exotic animal veterinarian who specializes in rabbits. You could find cheaper, but not all vets are knowledgeable in rabbit care nor have a lot of experience spaying/neutering such small animals.

5.) Rabbits are social animals and require just as much attention as dogs. They need playtime and interaction, recommended 4 hours a day of letting them out of their habitat and getting some room to stretch and exercise. My friend who had a rabbit as a child made the mistake of neglecting her rabbit in a small cage and it became extremely aggressive and feral-like. (And warning - their nails and teeth are SHARP so you do not want an unhappy rabbit). Many rabbit owners even recommend getting two rabbits so they can keep each other company, but of course that means double the mess and double the expenses.

6.) Rabbits are a long term commitment. Unlike other small creatures like hamsters and mice, rabbits have a life span of 10 years on average, and some can even live up to 12. That’s on par with many cats and dogs, so make sure you and your family truly understand the lifetime commitment it will require.

Hopefully this very long list of why you SHOULDN’T get a pet rabbit helps families who weren’t aware of how high maintenance they are. Feel free to add on to this list if you have other points, or ask any questions and I’ll try my best to help.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/fu9pkw/
author:xnattie
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1387
numComments:118
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True