title:
YSK that documentary are not absolute truths.

content:
A lot of people are ranting about how Tiger King is not an actual “documentary”, “It’s a reality show”, etc lately because they found out that the director and producer of the show selectively cut out so much dark stuff from the show to make certain characters look more holy/protagonist. Here is the thing. Documentaries don’t necessarily have to tell the absolute truth. What comes to your mind when you think of a documentary? Those soothing calm videos of Nat Geo or Discovery? Well, ya those are documentaries too but just because they show  99% truth, doesn’t mean there exists documentaries that show just 25% truth.

I first realised this when I attended a lecture by a director who made very famous documentaries (forgot his name) and this was what he first told the class before he started his lecture. Here are some interesting points he said that stuck with me:

1. Documentaries are planned and scripted just like movies are. They have a start, and end and various acts.
2. Documentaries have protagonists and antagonists. A very skilled director can make even a criminal look like a protagonist.
3. Documentaries are like watching Ghost Adventures. You record hours of nothing just in the hopes of getting a minute of juicy cow. And when you get the cow, you milk it till it’s dry. The cameras are always rolling.
4. Sometimes even when nothing happened, you can edit it out to something.

Documentaries are very much like Wikipedia. If you use Wikipedia articles as reference in your project report, your report would get thrown out the window. 

You should know this because in case in future you ever come across a documentary, take it with a grain of salt. Don’t use that documentary as facts to strengthen your argument. Don’t get riled up watching a documentary. You might be only learning partial truth. Directors of documentaries don’t get paid a lot unless they have a very good portfolio. So most of them are inclined to show you partial truths.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/g0qovs/
author:anonymousiit
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:2565
numComments:171
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True