title:
LPT: If you're just graduating now into this massive recession, now is a great time to abandon your original plans and adapt to this new reality

content:
The biggest mistake I made in The Great Recession was sticking to my original plan after finishing my undergrad: moving home with my parents and applying for jobs until I got a great one in my desired field. I thought that was persistence, but really, it was total denial of the reality I was in. Doing online job apps to large companies during a recession is almost completely pointless, and most small businesses are out now too. Now is the time to change your plans and adapt to reality.

If you are able, spending the next 2 years in graduate school, starting your own business, working on creative projects, moving out of your parents' house to tree plant/whatever, or travelling is vastly preferable to getting stuck on your original plans. Don't get stuck living at home, paralyzed, with little to fill your days but 'self improvement' and upskilling projects to execute your (now) futile original plan. Instead, make a life for yourself that fits this new reality, even if it isn't what you planned.

Instead of comparing different versions of your 'dream plan' to one another to make a decision, write out all your possibilities and try to be creative while doing it. Then, compare sitting at home with your parents unemployed to those alternative plans and see if you can make one work. Is grad school better than your pre-recession dream plan? Maybe not. Is grad school better than sitting at home with your parents and doing nothing? Probably. What about tree planting? Getting politically active? What about working on an oil rig? Volunteering? What about doing an artist residency? Maybe any of those is better than unemployment. Maybe they're even better than the original dream plan you had. Compare all your options to the true reality you're facing, and you might find a new path that will put you way further ahead than proceeding with the plans you had a few months ago. These years won't be lost years - unless you stick to your original plan, and wind up unemployed for a long time. It's not like your dream job is going anywhere. But you do get further away from it if you fail to adapt.

If you have a broad degree -- math, science, English, history -- you're especially well prepared for a wide variety of possibilities. Think of yourself as not on an open road, but on an open sea. You can go any direction you like. That's not to say that the barriers in front of you aren't real - being poor and in debt in America closes a lot of doors, for example. But that's all the more reason to change your plans - maybe you can work on a political campaign advocating for the change you want to see, rather than the original office job you had planned. You wouldn't make a lot of money, but you won't make a lot of money being totally unemployed, either.

I wasted a lot of time pursuing my original goals. I would have been way better off changing my plans and adapting. That's not failure, that's growth. Other options would have been vastly more fulfilling than the shitty version of my dream plan that I ended up living for a few years.

Don't make my mistake. Throw your plans in the garbage and you could open yourself up to even better paths. If paralyzed by indecision by the possibilities, think about how you want to grow and change as a human being. What are your values? How can you live your values?

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/g1ja4x/
author:uxhelpneeded
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1220
numComments:191
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True