title:
LPT: As a Handyman, please don't EVER offer us things like coffee, or food.

content:
I saw a post earlier advising people to offer coffee to handymen when they are working in their homes. I am begging you, PLEASE DO NOT DO THIS!! I work as a handyman. I have been working inside people's homes my entire adult life, and I can honestly say, it creates a horrible amount of unnessecary tension. No, I do not want to drink your coffee, I happened to bring my own. No, I don't want you to run to Burger King, and get me a lunch, eating a meal on the job tends to slow me down, and it feels awkward sitting down for a meal with a complete stranger who just bought the meal. On top of that, in my experience, the customers who offer food or coffee, are usually the ones who end up asking for free shit. "Hey, I just bought you a burger, think you could take a look at my bedroom door real quick?" So I find it is always easier to say "No" to anything and everything offered. Now I have to go through the awkward conversation of denying hospitality, only to get that cliche "Are you sure?" YES I'M SURE!! I WOULD NOT HAVE SAID 'NO' IF I ACTUALLY WANTED SOME!

Sorry for the yelling, but please don't take advice on how to treat handymen from someone who clearly has never worked as one. Take it from me, we don't appreciate it. It creates an awkward situation. Whatever you do, don't ever, EVER offer food and/or coffee to the Handyman. He will appreciate NOT being offered. Trust me.

EDIT: You have to keep in mind, your house is the handyman's office, and you are the customer. Imagine being in your place of employment, and suddenly, your customer/clients start offering you free stuff. You offering the handyman a cup of coffee, would be the equivalent of a customer in a restaurant offering a cup of coffee to the server. It's ridiculous. Do not do it.

EDIT #2: Alright, I think I have just about exhausted my ability to reply here. Those of you who engaged in the discussion, thank you. It was fun. Those of you who had nothing better to say than to attack me for not having social skills, well, the irony was missed on you, I guess.  


EDIT #3: I get it! I get it! I'm an autistic, anti-social, whatever else you wanna call me. My god people. Can you guys really not formulate any better response than to attack me? Ad hominem is not a good strategy in a debate. You're only making yourselves seem silly.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/g1rfek/
author:Creative_Impediment
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:4194
numComments:809
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True