title:
LPT: Struggle to make friends? Treat new people like you're already friends.

content:
When meeting someone you want to have a friendly relationship with (peer, coworker etc) act like you've been friends for years already. 

Let your face light up when you see them like they've made your day by being there. Ask them how they're doing and empathise. Share stuff back, like you would with a friend and not just a stranger - don't be afraid to be a little vulnerable as you're creating a safe space for them to share their vulnerabilities. If you make sure that the message your words/face/body language convey when you're around them is "I like you as a person", eventually, they start to like you back and BOOM friendship! 

I accidentally found this out years back by sitting down and chatting to a stranger in my class thinking she was someone I knew - we ended up hanging out for the rest of the year!  I've been using this technique ever since and now small talk and meeting new people feels natural. 

This post is for my younger self, who really struggled with making new friends. I read library books, articles and took notes from TV shows on how to interact with others and still didn't *really* get it. 

Hopefully it helps for some of you too - it may seem like common sense but maybe there's some others out there that were like me.



Edit: Holy shit. I've learned a good lesson today about thinking a deeper about what I want to say before thrusting it into the face of internet strangers.

Reading through the comments, I agree with the vast majority of your answers. There's no hard and fast rule to social interactions, and everything is deeply weighted by past experience, relationships, personal circumstance and culture (no shit, self). I was feeling introspective about my interpersonal struggles as a kid, and fully projected that onto the whole of Reddit. 

I've realised that those of us who "successfully" use this style of communication have hopefully learned to pick up on nonverbal cues, one of the most important aspects of communication. Most importantly, it's about mutual comfort and looking for the best aspects of others. 

I messed up with my lack of clarity, conscision and thought, and I appreciate your much more thoughtful responses. They made a poorly worded post into an important discussion about boundaries.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/g99ebl/
author:Aseroerubra
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:3733
numComments:150
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True