title:
LPT: If you have depression do things in chunks.

content:
This goes for everything. Can’t find the motivation to shower? Wash your hair now, then wash yourself later. 

Do five dishes and then leave it. Come back in an hour or two and do another five. 

Gotta vacuum? Do one room and then leave it for a little bit. 

Keep a pitcher of water in your room with a glass of you struggle with keeping yourself hydrated. 

Take the clothes out of your room, then do bottles, trash, etc. don’t try to do it all at once, etc.

Write a paragraph or two of that important essay, then come back to it in an hour and do another two. 

Only give yourself a few tasks a day. In the long run, you will get more done and you’ll feel great about it. 


And finally when trying to do a task, don’t think about it. Just do it in the spur of the moment. It’s hard to complete tasks when you don’t even have the motivation to get yourself a drink. By breaking them up, it makes the task less daunting and ultimately you’ll feel better knowing that you were productive. Celebrate every little thing that you do.



Edit: I know that everyone is different. I myself am admittedly not that old(19), and so there’s still a lot that I have left to learn. I was diagnosed with depression when I was eight and it’s been a roller coaster ever since. This is personally what helps me. And I just hoped that maybe my tips that i trialed and errored for worked for other people too. 

Depression is a terribly lonely thing, and so I was hoping to create a section where we could get together and give each other tips. What works for me will definitely not work for everyone. But its worth saying because even if it doesn’t reach everyone, it still might inspire someone. 

So if you are different with the way you remain productive, please share it in the comments, I’m not used to having hundreds of comments but I’m reading all the ones that I can. I’m interested to learn new strategies and with the way things are in the world, every little bit of positivity helps.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/gboqvm/
author:Bubdolf7
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:20026
numComments:537
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True