title:
LPT: If someone you love is serious about a hobby, consult with them or with an expert before buying them ANYTHING related to that hobby.

content:
Experts are extremely picky people, in *any* field, and chances are, if you don't know a lot about something, you won't understand the subtleties of, say, what kind of equipment is high-quality, or what kind of stuff would really be useful to someone who takes it seriously.

I've seen this happen before tons of times—well-meaning friends and relatives want to buy something for you, but since they don't quite understand, they end up getting you something that's essentially useless. And while you're incredibly grateful for the gesture, especially if a lot of money was spent, it's just uncomfortable, and it's a situation that could've been avoided had they taken the extra step to talk to you or a professional to see what kind of stuff would really be useful.

Of course, this often relates to money. Say your niece is a serious trumpet player and plays in a conservatory. You want to go all out, and decide to buy her a trumpet. You see that the highest-rated trumpets cost thousands of dollars, which of course you can't afford, so you end up buying her one for about $100. Definitely a kind gesture! And of course, no one's suggesting you should've bankrupted yourself to buy the professional model! But the trumpet you've bought her is essentially a toy that's actually useless to her at her level. Whereas if you'd spoken to her or a real trumpet player, you could've instead bought her a $50 professional mouthpiece, or a new edition of a book of études she's been wanting to play, which would have saved you money and served her for years.

EDIT: I don't know if it's worth replying to these comments, but no, this doesn't make you ungrateful. Obviously, when you're given a gift like in the example, you're going to show your full appreciation, since this person went out of their way to get you a thoughtful gift and may have spent a lot of money. In no situation should the receiver complain or criticize. But if you're a gift giver and want to give something the person will actually enjoy, follow this advice. As a kid, when I only had an Xbox 360, but my aunt gave me Oblivion for the PS3 (i.e., a game that I could not play no matter what, since it wouldn't run on my console), of course I thanked her profusely, but I'm not a bad person for having wished that she'd done a bit more research and spent her money on something I could use. 

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/ggd5s3/
author:EgoSumAbbas
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:28499
numComments:1239
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True