title:
LPT: Help Your Partner with their Menstrual Cramps

content:
EDIT - I'm not sure what a Healthcare Hero award is, but I feel like it obligates me to clean this post up. This was initially just a fire-and-forget post and I figured like 8 people would see it. TL;DR down low. LPT starts in the next section a few paragraphs down. If for some reason you want to see the original post, check here. [https://imgur.com/a/zM8ISPR](https://imgur.com/a/zM8ISPR)

Full disclosure - I am a 35 year old ~~white~~ male who does not own a medical degree. I am not the Vagina whisperer. I am not an ovarian expert. I am not other reproductive-organ based titles. I'm just a dude passing on information that was given to me by someone with apocalyptic cramps that has helped me help almost every significant other, since. If you have a vagina, I assume you know how it works. I'm talking to the other people like me that were raised in the middle of nowhere, and NO ONE talked about the reproductive cycle or female organs. I'm sick of all the ignorance floating around and I think we need to normalize talking about this stuff because it's important.

Let's streamline something and get it out of the way, real quick. This is not the end-all be-all solution for everyone. Your go-to should be providing your significant other with things like heating pads, water bottles, cuddles, lower back rubs or whatever else they want. Their own internal organs are trying to punch them in the lungs. You need to ask before you do this because depending on the person's sensitivity, it could hurt worse. Periods are often different even in the same person.

&amp;#x200B;

&amp;#x200B;

Here's a scribble that I stole from google images and exacted my mad skills in Microsoft Paint, on. [https://i.imgur.com/q2BZsxa.png](https://i.imgur.com/q2BZsxa.png)

People today are being diagnosed with all kinds of amazing and awful conditions that make the already ever-so-fun aspect of having a uterus even more of a potential nightmare. I've had several partners in my life that had severe, often debilitating cramps during their cycle due to things like PCOS (Polycystic Ovary Syndrome) or Endometriosis. It can be brutal for them, and I'm tired of not talking about it. This tiny thing that I'm about to teach you could make your significant other's time of the month - or week or year or whatever their 'cycle' might be doing - infinitely more bearable.

That's a simple, inoffensive, line-art drawing of a portion of a body. See that red part? That's right over the uterus. During their periods and often outside of their ScHeDuLe depending on hormones and other factors, the muscles around it cramp, HARD. Often, things as strong as hydrocodone won't be strong enough to even slow the pain down, and Mydol is a fking joke. This is constant, repeated charley-horse of the muscle group that surrounds a delicate internal organ and it sucks so much more than that makes it sound. Those muscles are flexing and releasing like a large man's fist during a heart attack - aggressively and without reason.

**Sometimes in these cases, pressure can provide immediate relief. Ask your partner if you can try applying pressure to see if it helps. If you get the green light, all you have to do is rest your hand or arm directly over that red spot, and apply firm but gentle pressure. That's it - that's the whole thing. Apply a little pressure - you're not trying to beat it up for hurting your significant other. You know how when your muscles are sore, they like to be rubbed? Same thing.  Just apply firm pressure like you're giving someone a hug. Not a bear hug; a normal one. If they want more pressure, believe me, they'll ask for it. The counter-pressure and heat will relieve an unbelievable amount of pressure and pain. You don't necessarily need to massage - the cramps will do that for you. If it works, the relief is often IMMEDIATE.**

*Because'Why don't they do it themselves?' a common question, I'm sure someone can do this to themselves. My point is it can feel a lot better and the person feels a lot less alone if you offer to do it for them. Also it's probably pretty uncomfortable to do it yourself in a lot of cases.*

&amp;#x200B;

&amp;#x200B;

TL;DR -   Rest hand or arm with slight pressure on or across the red spot highlighted in this diagram. (just above the vagina, where pubic hair would typically grow.)  [https://i.imgur.com/q2BZsxa.png](https://i.imgur.com/q2BZsxa.png)

P.S. Please feel free to repost the crap out of this. I don't care about credit. Downvote this into oblivion, that's fine, I don't care about the shiny internet points. I care that a LOT of people deal with crippling reproductive issues, and mostly they just suck it up and shut up because half the population can't understand what they're going through, and a fair chunk of the half that could doesn't believe them because 'well it never happened to me, so you're wrong'. Help your people.

P.P.S. I only English, so if someone wants to provide me with a proper (not google translated) translation into any language, I would be happy to attach it.  Also, does anyone with PCOS know of a good resource to link here for people who don't know what it is?

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/gr1hgg/
author:IDZro
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:2131
numComments:296
isOver18:True
hasPostBody:True