title:
LPT: Make it a point to stretch every day, even if it's just 5-10 minutes. Doing so will help prevent a lot of "old people" body aches and pains.

content:
I don't care what the context is, stretching applies to everything. Stretching not only reduces the risk of injury but also increases quality of life by improving posture and decreasing muscle tightness.

Going to do some physical activity? Do some dynamic stretches (with movement) to get muscles warmed up. 

Just finished physical activity? Static stretches (regular stretches they teach you in gym class) will prevent muscles from being tight.

Been sitting on your ass the entire day (cause of work OR laziness)? Stretching will offset the negative effects of whatever bad posture you had, and will help increase blood flow.

Feeling body aches and pains? Stretch it out. Most likely muscle tightness.

Make stretching a part of your daily routine, like flossing. It's one of those things that you won't realize the benefits of doing until you stop doing it after having done so for months.

Just like compound interest, the earlier you start taking advantage of it, the sooner you'll be able to reap the benefits. Doesn't matter what age you are. If you're 22 and below, stretching will help keep you feeling young and spry. If you're older than that, it'll undo a lot of the minor aches and discomfort you feel.

EDIT - Each stretch should only be 30 seconds. Any less and it's ineffective, any more and you don't get any additional benefits from it.

EDIT 2: Electric Boogaloo - I'm not a physiotherapist or a doctor, but I've gotten the information above from several physiotherapists and registered massage therapists. I've experienced firsthand the benefits of stretching (which have led to better flexibility, overall quality of life improvement, etc) since i started doing it daily a few years ago. 

I also forgot to include the mental benefits of daily stretching, as you can use that 5-10 minutes to clear your mind/meditate. That's basically what yoga is anyway :)

EDIT 3 - For those asking for sources:

[Harvard](https://www.health.harvard.edu/staying-healthy/the-importance-of-stretching)

[UC Davis](https://shcs.ucdavis.edu/blog/archive/healthy-habits/why-stretching-extremely-important)

And in this thread i learned that some of the studies are inconclusive/have mixed results, so here's a [piece from the Mayo Clinic](https://www.mayoclinic.org/healthy-lifestyle/fitness/in-depth/stretching/art-20047931) as well, which states this.

EDIT 4 - I'm not advocating difficult stretches, just basic ones to help relieve tightness. Obviously, a healthy, nutritious lifestyle by eating properly, keeping active, getting enough sleep are more important than stretching. However for a lot of people, including myself, 15 minutes of basic stretching every day was what got me started on this path, not to mention the mental health benefits i got from it as well (breathing, meditation, and clearing my mind).

EDIT 5 - Last edit hopefully: WARM UP FIRST BEFORE WORKING OUT, SPORTS, OR OTHER PHYSICAL ACTIVITY.

DO NOT DO STATIC STRETCHES (especially strenuous ones) BEFORE PHYSICAL ACTIVITY, OR IF YOUR MUSCLES ARE COLD.

I never advocated for this, and I hope no one misinterpreted that. 

Be active, and be healthy while doing so.

u/exodubs there ya go

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/gs2ndz/
author:thelandan
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:10154
numComments:353
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True