title:
YSK that just because someone appears confident and socialable, doesn't mean they don't have anxiety (social or otherwise )

content:
This misconception has always bothered me. A lot of people tend to associate people with anxiety/depression/other mental health conditions to be for  quiet, reserved, introverts.


While this can be true, it isn't always the case. So many people get shocked/don't believe me when i open up about my personal issues because i am an extrovert and a performer and "seem" to do people related things "effortlessly" (this is just the fake it till you make it method. Never made it lol, most things still terrify me). I can't tell y'all the number of times I've been told I'm just fishing for attention if i let people know. This has just made me more and more reserved on an emotional level and now i hate talking about feelings even when it's someone i can trust. My panic attacks have gotten worse and i have a hard time reaching out for help when when i know i need it. 


Please be mindful of people in general, regardless of whether they seem socially reserved or not. You NEVER know what they are going through. Making a judgement of someone based on their exterior personality only pushes them away. Just because someone is good at something (socializing, public speaking, performing etc) does NOT mean it is a pleasant and comfortable position for them to be in!


Have you had any expereince with this?


ETA: I'm absolutely blown away by the response this has gotten within an hour. I'm trying to reply to all you beautiful people!

Edit 2: holy shirt, my first award?! Thank you so much kind strangers!! This is one weird day

Final edit: words can't described how overwhelmed i am. I don't know if i can respond to evryone, but i am trying to read as much as i can so please don't stop commenting if you need to. My DM's are open for anyone who needs to talk. Remember, you are loved, you are worthy. I hope each and evryone one of you are having an amazing day. Even the negative nancy's!

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/gvr62l/
author:Rianonymous
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:59574
numComments:1444
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True