title:
YSK that blanks can still kill you

content:
Many people assume that firing blanks from a firearm means that it makes a loud boom but can’t hurt you. This just isn’t true. It still expels heated gasses that will kill you at point blank range. Never, ever, handle a firearm if you don’t know firearm safety basics, how to operate that specific firearm, and how the ammunition you’re using works. On film sets, they have armorers who specialize in this and train actors in blank safety and other essentials, and people still die.

EDIT 1: From u/Gasoline_Dion in the replies:
YSK, the term 'point blank' does not necessarily mean right up close, but from a distance where there's no appreciable drop of the projectile.

EDIT 2: When I initially posted this I didn’t realize that so many people had been around blanks as a kid and didn’t know about this. This also reminded me of a time that I shot blanks as a teenager. My parents were very vocal about gun safety because one of my Mom’s high school friends accidentally shot himself way back when. Because my parents were so vocal about it, I have always used the utmost caution around guns, but it’s sad to see that many people weren’t taught that.

EDIT 3: From u/acornstu in replies:
For reference ar beer can launchers use blanks and can launch a bud light like 100 yards.

EDIT 4: Cap guns and co2 powered replica guns are NOT the same as using a real firearm with blank ammunition.

EDIT 5: Certain types of theatrical props and other “fake” guns may be relatively safe to fire at close quarters. This DOES NOT discount the fact that people have died from firing blanks and that you should always be careful. Some people have replied with personal anecdotes about how they have used blanks in the past and they’re actually safe. I would direct those people to re-read my statement about knowing your firearm and ammunition.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/h0dcw4/
author:Froggynoch
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:21797
numComments:715
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True