title:
LPT: If you have a lot of free time at the moment, you can generate a little income on the side by doing online work like teaching english, transcription, microtasks or surveys. It's not a fortune but if you have time to spare anyway it's a good way to pay a few bills. (list of sites attached)

content:
Here is a list of sites for online work that anyone can use:

&amp;#x200B;

Appen - Paid Projects, up to 20 hours a week. Decent pay of about $14 dollars per hour but depends on the project you can get

Lionbridge - Paid projects, great projects on offer

TeamWork - Paid projects, good site.

ClickWorker - Surveys and Writing..payments vary per task....Very good site.

Neevo - Tasks , up to $1 per task approx

Vipkid- Teach English to kids online, $15-$25 per hour or so

QKid- Same as vipkid teaching English online- I think this pays up to $20 per hour

gogokid- Teach English Online $14-25 per hour

Prolific.co - Surverys, pays very well!

Mturk - Microtasks- Pay is ok, haven't used it myself but seems fine

Rev - Transcription

TranscribeME - Transcription

GoTranscript- Transcription

Qmee- Surveys, varying payout on each one...pretty good site.

Swagbucks- Surveys, good paying.

Timebucks - Various surveys, good site.

GG2U- Surveys, good site with good payout, probably average of 1$ per survey

Serpclix - Good one for tasks/surveys...intall on your browser and it will let you know when there are some available

BrandedSurvey- Surveys

20Cogs - You complete 20 offers to get the payout, you will have to cancel a few subsciptions after some tasks but it's a good way to make about £200-£300

Panelbase.net - Surveys, Mostly they pay £1-£4

YouGov - Surveys, good site and pay is decent.

populuslive.com - Surveys, pay is decent.

Ysense - Surveys and other tasks

Prizerebel - Surveys and other tasks

Microworkers - Various tasks

HideOutTV- Watch videos and get paid

HoneyGain- You get paid for browsing the internet every month , maybe $40 or so

&amp;#x200B;

This got a very positive response when I posted a few months ago so I thought I'd put it out there again, Personally I use a combination of these sites to earn around £1000-£1500 a month. Hopefully it can be of help to more people, shoot me a message if you have any questions

&amp;#x200B;

EDIT: Ok so the reason I said I use a combination of these sites is because I have used all of them at one time or another, but here is my current combination:

Appen/Lionsbridge- Most recently worked as a social media evaluator which payed $15 per hour and gave me around 10 hours per week

Clickworker- I use the UHRS section,“Universal Human Relevance System”. It’s a partner website that can be accessed over clickworker.com and where you can process additional jobs. You can earn a lot more this way

Neevo- Various tasks , up to $1 per task approx

VipKid and other english teaching sites- I also put ads on a spanish site called tusclasesparticulares offering skype classes. Here is a link to a lot of different English teaching sites you can use from different countries

GG2U- Surveys, good site with good payout, probably average of 1$ per survey

20cogs- A good way to earn £200+ in a relatively short time

Serpclix - Good one for tasks/surveys...intall on your browser and it will let you know when there are some available

Qmee- Surveys, good site

Prolific- Surveys- Can pay very well

HoneyGain- You get paid for browsing the internet every month , maybe $40 or so

These would be my go to sites, and I sporadically check for work on the others too if I have the time.

I spend 2 hours a day doing this to earn £1000 per month but it's usually higher than that. You have to earn £33 per day in order to hit the £1000 per month mark, which is very doable when you have 20 or so sites to work with.

For me at the moment it's usually a one hour class which makes me £15 and then a combination of projects from Lionsbridge (which currently pays about $15 dollars for an hour) and then a couple of random short tasks or surveys from one of the other sites, or more if I don't do a class...Takes a while to fine tune it and I'm always modifying the combination but believe me it's more than doable. As I say, you just need to hit that £33 a day, which is actually even easier to hit in dollars if you prefer to think of it that way.

&amp;#x200B;

Also, and this is only useful to people in the UK, I am currently doing "Matched Betting" because the Premier league is on now and more and more sporting fixtures are making a comeback. Match betting is where you bet on one outcome in the bookies and then bet against that outcome in the exchange, with both bets at almost the same odds.

So for example, If you bet £10 for Real Madrid to win at odds of 2.5 on the betting site, and then bet for Real Madrid not to win(i.e bet against them) on the exchange at the same odds, you are covered in all outcomes, win lose or draw.

This means you have fullfilled the requirements of the betting sites offer (for example, Bet £10 and get £40 in free bets) without actually gambling, since there is no risk of losing the £10 you bet since it's matched. You then do the exact same thing with your £40 free bets, and this is where you make the profit since you're not using £40 of your own money.

Yes It's totally legal, just a loophole in the system really, although I was very suspicious of it at first. I wrote a guide explaining how to do it, you can find it at the top of my profile if you are interested. I have made about £700-£800 per month from doing this, on top of the money from other sites, but obviously this means putting in more time!

I hope this is of some help, If you have any other questions don't hesitate to ask!

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/har8qo/
author:IvyRoney
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:8088
numComments:334
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True