title:
YSK your outdoor cat is causing detrimental damage to the environment

content:
Cats hunt down endangered birds and small mammals while they’re outdoors, and have become one of the largest risk to these species due to an over abundance of outdoor domestic cats and feral cats. Please reconsider having an outdoor cat because they are putting many animals onto the endangered list.

Edit to include because people have decided to put their personal feeling towards cats ahead of facts: the American Bird Conservancy has listed outdoor cats as the number one threat to bird species and they have caused about 63 extinctions of birds, mammals, and reptiles. Cats kill about 2.4 billion birds a year. The International Union for the Conservation of Nature lists cats as one of the worlds worst non-native invasive species.

If you want your cat to go outside, put it on a leash with a harness! That way you can monitor your cat and prevent it from hunting anything. Even if you don’t see it happen, they can still kill while you’re not watching them. A bell on their collar does not help very much to reduce their hunting effectiveness, as they learn to hunt around the bell. 

Also: indoor cats live much longer, healthier lives than outdoor cats! It keeps them from eating things they shouldn’t, getting hit by cars, running away, or other things that put them in danger

I love how a lot of people commenting are talking about a bunch of the things that humans do to damage the environment, as if my post is blaming all environmental issues on cats. Environmental issues are multifaceted and need to be addressed in a variety of ways to ensure proper remediation. One of these ways is to take proper precautions with your cats. I love cats! I’ve had cats before and we ensured that they got lots of exercise and were taken outside while on harnesses or within a fenced yard that we can monitor them in and they can’t get out of. You’re acting like we don’t take the same precautions with dogs, even though dogs are able to be trained much more effectively than cats are.

I’m not sure why people are thinking that my personal feelings are invading this post when I haven’t posted anything about my personal feelings towards this issue. This is an important topic taught in environmental science classes because of the extreme negative impact cats have on the environment.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/hgbf0v/
author:[deleted]
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:37586
numComments:3959
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True