title:
LPT: don't use your child's embarrassing stories as dinner party talk. They are your child's personal memories and humiliating them for a laugh isn't cool.

content:
I've probably listened to my mum tell one particularly cringe worthy story dozens of times and I think everyone she knows has been told it. Every time she tells it, most of the time in front of me, I just want to crawl under the table and hide. However, that would give her another humiliating story to tell.

Just because you're a parent doesn't mean you have a right to humiliate them for a laugh.

I do think that telling about something cute they once did (pronouncing something wrong, for example) is different to an embarrassing story, but if your child doesn't like you telling about it then you should still find something else to talk about.

Edit: I mean telling stories from any part of your child's life at any part of your child's life. When I say child, I don't mean only someone under 18, I mean the person that is your child.

Edit again: This post blew up, can't believe how big it has gotten. Getting a lot of comments from the children (including adult children) involved but also parents which is awesome.

Im also getting a lot of comments about how this is a self-selecting sample and in the wider world, not as many people would support this. All I have to say is that just because there is another 50,000 people out there (or whatever number) who wouldn't care about this doesn't mean that the 50,000 here matter any less. It's not about proportion, its about that number existing in the first place. How do you know if the person you are talking about isn't one of those 50,000 people?

There is a much, much more constructive way to teach your child to be less sensitive. I laugh with my kid, not at him. We do it when we're on our own or in safe groups. If he tells me something funny he did, I laugh with him and I'll tell him stupid things I do so we can laugh together.

I don't humiliate him with personal and embarrassing stories around Christmas dinner or whatever. It's about building people up, not breaking them down. Embarrassing someone to give them thicker skin is a massive gamble between ended up with someone being able to laugh at themself and someone who is insecure, or at worst fuels the fire of an anxiety disorder. I'm not gambling with my kid.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/hin36n/
author:[deleted]
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:102946
numComments:2811
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True