title:
YSK that no matter how close you are with your children, you should not share the details of your marital problems with them.

content:
Trust me. They may seem very intelligent, mature and understanding and they may be so too but you can do your children a very great favor by not blurring this line, or else, without you even realizing it can become an immense and distressing burden for your children.

Edit: Wow I did not expect this post to blow up like this but I am very glad it did. Thank you so everyone who is sharing their personal stories, the fact that you went through all this and it’s negative impacts on you is a testament to why this advice matters.

Also thank you so much for all the awards.

Some people seem to be missing my point or perhaps he I could’ve been clearer. So there are a couple of clarifications:
 
• this post in no way suggests that you should lie to your children and pretend like everything is okay when it is not
• there is a middle ground between lying to your children, pretending there is no problem, and evading any questions they may have and sharing way too much and even unintentionally putting all the baggage on them and feeling like it’s their responsibility to fix it.
• this post does suggest that you should not, no matter the maturity intelligence level of your children, you should NOT put the burden of your marital/divorce-related problems to the children, do not mistake them for your marriage counselor, or your best friend, or your confidante.
• you may be alone, go make friends or talk to a therapist, please
• not dumping every single emotional baggage on your children IS different than having a conversation with them  and talking with them about the issues that may affect them on a need-to-know bases 
• also, abuse is a human rights violation is different than cheating and smaller fights, and requires a separate consideration along with any other safety threats. 


For those of you who are asking what this post is based on, or what is the psychological backing...  Please look into terms “parentified child”, “early parentification”, “emotional (covert) incest” and “triangulation”. 

Please read u/sassatha ‘s comment on this thread where they briefly explain emotional incest.

Sending everyone love and kindness. You can unlearn and learn the healthy ways, and to establish new healthy boundaries.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/hmnhgu/
author:qrushqueen
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:39900
numComments:953
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True