title:
YSK always swim parallel to the land in a rip current, never panic and swim directly towards the shore.

content:
I come from a coastal area, and seeing as it is summer, I know you lovely people are going to the beach. Every year people die from panicking in rip currents. As a reminder, please be careful when you swim at the beach.

Pay attention to beach flags to know if it is safe to swim. If you do find yourself in one, swim horizontally (parallel) with the shore until you are out of the rip current. Rip currents are too strong to swim out of and directly towards shore. Let the rip current help you out. Don't panic. It is normal to be taken quite the distance away from where you first entered the water. If you get tired, float on your back as a breather. Just take care to not inhale water from waves.

I know beaches are fun, but I don't wanna see your name in my local news' yearly list of unfortunate beach deaths and accidents. I love you too much.

Stay safe, y'all 😊❤

**edit for clarity: idk how all beaches work. I only know about my own, but I'm going to post my response to a comment just in case it clears anything up for someone.

"I was actually refering to the colors posted. I'm not sure if all beaches use this method, I'm ignorant to every beach in the world except my own.

What the colors mean where I live:

Yellow flag: kinda okay conditions. Rip currents might end up being a thing that day, so feel free to swim, but be careful and cautious when you do.

Red flag: stronger than usual rip currents are more than likely going to happen. You might wanna not swim.

Double red flag: don't swim. It's illegal. We promise it's for your own safety.

Purple: some biohazard stuff is in the water,  i.e. bad algae cultures, so don't swim or you'll get sick, but we can't force you not to.

Top half red, bottom half yellow: life guards are here."

**another edit for clarity.

I changed "parallel to" with "parallel with" to limit confusion.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/hn9v2a/
author:m1anha3
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:1477
numComments:47
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True