title:
YSK That it doesn't matter if you are skinny, fat, fit, or none of the above; DO NOT be intimidated by others in the gym. If you are in the gym working out, NOBODY ELSE GIVES A FUCK about what you're doing but YOU.

content:
 If you are reluctant about starting, continuing, or ending your personal fitness journey because you are self-conscious about your size, form, or anything else that can riddle you with anxiety then know this; NOBODY else in the gym besides you cares about what YOU are doing. It doesn't matter if you're in there trying to lose weight, put on size, or just maintain a somewhat healthy lifestyle. Everyone in the gym is working towards a common goal; bettering themself.

There isn't a single person in the entire gym that knows EVERYTHING. There are so many different styles and techniques that it's nearly impossible. Don't expect someone to approach and help critique you because there is a fear of coming off as a know it all or a prick even though that's never the intention. But I guarantee if you ask someone who looks like they know what they are doing they would be MORE than happy to help. All you have to do is ask. Some of the nicest people I've met are the strongest guys/gals in the gym at any given time. 

I say this because I witnessed it happen at the gym today. Someone with not a lot of experience was in a workout room that eventually filled with 3/4 "bigger" guys. While it was just him and I in there he was just doing his thing. After they got there, he did maybe two more sets before putting his weight away and hastily grabbing his jacket to leave the gym. To anyone that knows how to read people, anxiety was written all over his face. I could be wrong, but I do believe it's why he left. 

Don't let other people intimidate you into not working towards your goals. Everyone starts somewhere, and nobody knows it all. Keep on trying your best, and don't be afraid to ask for help if you need it.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/ho6v8u/
author:dreamrndenial
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:65739
numComments:2201
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True