title:
YSK that talking to a friend in a foreign language while another friend that does not understand such language is around you is extremely impolite, given that there is a common language between the three of you.

content:
This is true even if you think you are talking about something that won’t interest the third friend.

Talking in a common language will give your friend the opportunity to join the conversation if he feels inclined to do so.

Talking in a foreign language will make this friend feel left out and unappreciated.

I am amazed at how many people I know who are generally very polite, yet have a huge blind spot when it comes to this and can have really long conversations without realizing they are completely leaving someone out of the conversation.

——————————————-

Edit: 

reading the replies I should point out that there are clearly exceptions to this. Actually, there is a whole gradient of situations ranging from your friends being completely expected to try to speak a common language to it being completely fine to expect someone to learn a language.

If you live in a foreign country, obviously you are expected to learn that country’s language. It would be rude for you to expect everyone to accommodate your needs. Clearly.

If you invite two friends to your house, in your native country, it is really rude of them to switch to their native language mid conversation (one which you were actually engaged in), completely locking you out of the conversation in your own house. That is rude.

And there are many situations in between. A friend passed by and is just doing a quick catching up- that is fine, no expectations here. Still, in this case, if he goes out of his way to include you, then it will be super appreciated!

Also, many seem to have assumed I’m an American expecting everyone to speak English. This is not the case at all. My family speaks a number of languages and we teach our children to always try to find a language everyone understands. Just like we teach them not to whisper in front of a friend (that’s rude) or not to exclude friends from conversations.

Obviously, sometimes there is no single common language, in which case there is not much that can be done.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/hqn7nn/
author:spinn80
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:23562
numComments:797
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True