title:
LPT: The best way to respond to a bully Is to genuinely and openly question their motives and intentions.

content:
I wanted to make this post for young people in particular, but I feel it applies quite broadly.

I have Tourrettes Syndrome. This is a very misunderstood condition. When most people think Tourrettes, they think "involuntarily cursing". That is a even more niche sub condition called Coprolalia. It's quite rare. People also often assume that it's a cognitive impairment condition, which is also incorrect.

For me, it primarily manifests as involuntary muscle tics, such as shaking my head, or rolling my wrists, and less often as a verbal tic; clearing my throat or sniffing.

As an adult, I've rarely had negative interactions with people. The tics come and go in levels of severity, so some people don't even know I have it. If they ask, I explain. 

As a kid, I was not often given such an opportunity, nor did I posses the eloquence to articulate what I was going through.

I was bullied pretty ruthlessly.

Usually I responded to the bullying by getting upset or shutting down. Neither did more than add fuel to the fire. However, there was an incident when I was 15 that drastically changed how I addressed things.

I was waiting with some friends for the School Bus to take us home and some guy came up to me, got in my face and starting calling me names mocking me.

I'd never met him before. I didn't know his name. I was about to get upset, and then for some reason I didn't.  

Instead I calmly asked "Why are doing this? I dont know you. Did I do something to you for you to treat me this way?"

He paused, and then he turned around a left.

Days later he came up to me in the hallway and asked if we could talk. 

He apologized and said that he doesn't know why he acted that way. He said that when I asked him why he was doing it, he realized he didn't have an answer and that he then he thought about how he would have felt in my position. 

I was shocked, but I accepted his apology and forgave him. We actually became good friends after that.

This interaction drastically changed how I approached bullying. Any time it happened, I would use this approach and 1 for 1 it would stop.

The person either apologized or just left me alone.

If any of you are going through anything similar, I would recommend trying this approach. Take a deep breathe, look them in the eyes and ask "why?".

It may not solve every situation, but it helped me and I hope it helps you too.

Edit: I wanted to respond to those who advocate violence as a solution.

Prior to the incident I described, I had gotten into many fights with bullies. I was not a small kid. By 15, i was 6'1 and more than capable of demolishing those who targeted me, and on several occasions I did.

Every time, I regretted it immensely. Violence is always an option, but it's a zero sum game. All it resulted in was fear of me and mocking from a distance.

When I used communication instead, the outcome was vastly different.

I'm not saying my solution is a perfect one, but I beleive that communication is the universal solvent. It should be the first option and the primary "weapon" in your arsenal against people. You'd be surprised how effective it is.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/hvl9ic/
author:southwoodhunter
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:10447
numComments:392
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True