title:
YSK with masks being required in many places it's worth being aware that the combination of muffled sound and no way to lip read makes it difficult for people with hearing difficulties. Making people feel stupid, small or horrid for the tiny inconvenience of having to repeat yourself can be crushing

content:
I am fortunate enough to have a pair of hearing aids that I can use for free on the NHS, but not everyone has that luxury. Any problems that cause issues with communication can be really difficult for people to feel included and many of those may struggle socially in general. You may not even be aware that someone has a mild hearing loss because humans are awesome and find ways to cope with just about anything. However, people can also be inconsiderate and, especially for those who are already self conscious about it, getting angry or impatient with someone because they're asking you to repeat yourself can be weirdly soul destroying (especially if you just give up and refuse to then say whatever it is you were saying). It really makes you feel like there's something totally wrong with you and somehow you're at fault. So with the added issues of masks muffling sound and blocking the lips, try to be patient with people who struggle to hear you and understand that we're not being dicks, it's not "selective hearing" (god damn it I hate that with a passion) and we're at least as annoyed by not being able to hear you as you are!

EDIT: There seems to be some people taking this as me suggesting we don't wear masks. That is ABSOLUTELY NOT what I'm suggesting. It is vital we continue to do so for as long as it takes, this was only ever meant to be a reminder that while we are using them there will be people who find communicating more difficult. Apologies if anyone thinks this was advocating for no masks, that was never my intention.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/hx2gpk/
author:Mikrail
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:17772
numComments:403
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True