title:
YSK almost all breeds of flat-faced pet (pugs, bulldogs, Persian cats, etc.) suffer from BOAS (Brachycephalic Obstructive Airway Syndrome) and actually live a very stressful life dealing with this disability amongst a plethora of associated disabilities

content:
These breeds have been genetically selected by humans for thousands of years to aesthetically please nobles, however has spread to be bred by literally anyone. 

This enables the existence of millions of creatures with heartbreaking (metaphorically and literally) disabilities which often go unnoticed or, more commonly, teased. This includes sleep and awakened snoring, which is exceptionally taxing on them physically and mentally. 

BOAS leads to many problems. Common problems include: 

• Difficulty to get sufficient air during exercise, leading to exhaustion, increased work input by the heart, and overheating 

• Insufficient blood oxygen, limiting cardiovascular function and eventually leading to heart failure (hence their shorter lifespan) and brain-related issues such as seizing. 

• Acid reflux due to excessive breathing 

• Snoring (significantly impacting sleep quality) 

There are so many more issues associated with flat-faced breeds, and I'd love to expand on purebreds/pedigree. 

If you have a flat-faced dog, please do regular checkups with your vet and tell them of any behaviours you notice your dog may do unlike others, such as methods of relieving pain and stress, as well as their sleep habits. 

I would like to encourage people to avoid buying these pets in the future and seek more ethical animals. A controversial view of mine and many others is that these poor breeds should no longer be bred to prevent so many lives of pain. By not breeding them, we are not hurting any creature. We are not killing them off to extinction. That would be horrifying. 

It is unfeasible for any existing breeds to be outright stopped as we will always have a "reservoir" of these breeds around the world.

Edit: This is blowing up, so I might as well add that this text is extremely simplified as there is a whole array of problems faced by not only flat-faced breeds, but many other breeds of dogs/pets due to genetic selection. I have chosen for this post to focus on the Brachycephalic. 

I am no vet but I love animals and have seen firsthand what the life of a purebred Brachycephalic is like, from it being two years old til death. We had to do loads of research and training with our vet to help support the poor guy.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/hzeksi/
author:PM_UR_PETITE_BODY
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:27874
numComments:766
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True