title:
YSK that you are not a professionally trained therapist and that the burden of helping someone who is suicidal is not on you.

content:
I just wanted to say that while I see the point behind the YSK this is referring to (it's well meaning don't get me wrong), I wanted to point out that this is putting an unfair onus on someone to help when they may not be in a position to help. You can put as much effort as you want, but you are not responsible for someone else's actions. If someone's going to kill themselves, they will do it regardless and that it's not your fault if it happens.

Abusers also like to abuse this tactic of threatening to kill themselves as a way to keep the victim from leaving and while this is a despicable form of manipulation, this is more common than you think. If you suspect this to be the case, you should call for a wellness check to call their bluff. I know someone this has happened to. That being said, this isn't representative of all depressed people so please don't assume that.

If you cannot help someone, you can tell them that you cannot help and point to resources that can provide the help they need. If you don't know any resources, that's okay too. It's on that person if they want to get help or not. Accept that you are not professionally trained to handle depressed or suicidal people and you should not allow someone to force you into that situation if you aren't ready or capable of helping.

Don't set yourself on fire to keep others warm and put your own mask on before assisting others. It's not selfish to look out for your own mental health and your suicidal friend would be much better off in the hands of professionals.

With that in mind, I'd like to share a good resource to every suicide hotline in the world which also includes a few extra resources to helping you find a therapist: [https://www.suicidestop.com/call\_a\_hotline.html](https://www.suicidestop.com/call_a_hotline.html)

Edit: WOW. I was not expecting the response or the awards. I honestly thought I was going to be flamed into oblivion. Thank you so much everyone for the awards and also thanks for sharing your stories. It gave me so much to reflect on!

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/i29ljf/
author:SweetTeaBags
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:27914
numComments:427
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True