title:
YSK that following the arrows in stores is not an inconvenience, but rather a way to reduce crowding in aisles and protect the people who are shopping there.

content:
Today I went shopping for groceries with my dad who is immunocompromised. Before anyone says "oh he should just stay home", please know that he rarely leaves the house already and going to the grocery store is one of the only places he can go relatively safely and choose what food he wants. Also, he works full time so he can't just take time off to go during the special hours. 

The arrows at the store are quite large and mark which way traffic should flow. In one of the aisles,  my dad politely asked a couple to follow the arrows and turn around so he could get through. They waved him off and said no one cares anyways. He then told them he was immunocompromised and they said "then don't f-ing come to the store" and flipped him off. He was pretty angry at this and was kinda muttering under his breath about how it's not that hard to follow the f-ing arrows. A lady in the aisle overheard and called him very rude. We just kept walking and finished our shopping. 

So tldr: follow the arrows because you never know who is shopping and it's really not that hard to do.

edit: spelling

edit 2: Wow, I was not expecting this. To respond to some of you, yes it is an inconvenience (I didn't word it right), but my point is that it's really not that difficult to walk the extra couple of feet to get what you are looking for. So as a couple people pointed out, it is both an inconvenience and a way to reduce crowding. It doesn't bother me that much if it's something right at the end of the aisle, but if it's all the way at the other end, just go around. To the people saying my dad should just stay home, you try not going out for months. Stir-crazy is a nice way to put how he's feeling at the moment. We avoid crowds in the aisles because people are definitely not physical distancing. And to follow up on someone's comment about this being a useless post: it's not. Clearly people in the comments do not care about others, let alone following a couple arrows. They may not be the best system, but if everyone actually paid attention to them, maybe they'd work for a change. The couple in this situation could've just as easily apologized and not been complete assholes to my dad, but such is the world we live in. So basically thanks for the support and just be considerate to others. You follow the arrows when driving and when you're waiting in line for something so why can't you do it in a store?

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/i2jhho/
author:greenbeanbunny
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:22565
numComments:919
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True