title:
LPT: you must fully understand what an HOA is and read the restrictive covenants before moving into a neighborhood with an HOA.

content:
Four months out of law school or so, I was becoming relatively desperate for work. I ended up applying fora  firm that needed "immediate help" (LPT: that is generally going to be a red flag). I was told at the interview that I would do a variety of civil things pertaining to real property and estate planning. It was relatively vague but I needed a job and it would be good experience.

I spent my entire first day at the job learning how to foreclose on a claim of lien - that is a fancy way of saying that, if you violate the restrictive covenants (e.g. not paying yearly dues), the HOA is going to take your house away, sell it at auction for pennies on the dollar, take "their share" (meaning you are paying the exorbitant legal fees for the attorney that got paid to take your house away, and give you what little bit is remaining. I would learn that our firm represented over 100 HOA's in the surrounding area and my primary function was to take people's houses away.

House destroyed by a hurricane? Wife have terminal cancer? Your HOA very well may not care, at all. I've seen it. Oh boy, I have seen it. So, yeah, God forbid you end up on your last leg and then you are going to be paying for your HOA's attorneys to take your house away. Speaking of HOA attorneys, do you have any idea how much it costs the HOA to get an attorney to draft a letter saying someone's grass is too high? Easily in the ball park of a thousand dollars.

It is not just that the HOA will take your house. You are paying for someone to tell you how you can use your home. Oh, and speaking of paying, most restrictive covenants permit exponential increases in annual assessments and "special assessments" for basically any amount at any time, regardless of whether the money actually increases your property value.

I could whine all day but there is one more thing: never, ever, ever, take someone's word that the HOA isn't very active so it is not an issue. All it takes is one nosey neighbor to attend a handful of meetings and next thing you know she will have your HOA paying tens of thousands of dollars to some attorney to make sure your cancer struck neighbor loses their house without regard for the fact they finished paying their mortgage ten years ago.

One more thing while I am at it. I live in a town where it is next to impossible, to find a home built after 1990 without an HOA. The only strong pro-HOA argument is that HOAs preserve property value. Well, guess what, when the rest of society catches on and realizes what a plague these things are, people are going to be paying a premium to get away from HOAs and the non-HOA neighborhoods will reflect that.

Edit: Sorry, I know this came off as one sided (deservedly so in my opinion) but I should add. HOAs make sense in a few scenarios: any time a shared roof is at play (condos); you are rich and just don't care about frivolous expenditures; vacation homes; or for elderly people it may be nice to have a set community structure with the amenities. Regardless, there is probably a more suitable non-HOA for all of these options except for maybe the shared roof thing. At a minimum though, please understand what you are doing before you sign on.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/i4cw91/
author:hostilecarrot
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:15894
numComments:1741
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True