title:
LPT: If a loved one passes away, make them proud instead of throwing your life away.

content:
Hi!

So when i was 10 years old (13 now) my dad passed away of a stroke.

It was a rough 3 weeks and school was a total mess. I finished my year (year 6) and we decided to move to another city. So during year 7 I was still pretty messed up. My grades went from pretty good to really bad. I finished the year with 18 pts (pretty bad-ish for Switzerland) the next school year is a big year academically. You need to get 20 pts to get into VP (Voie Prégymnasiale) basically sends you automatically to college/HS (idk lol) once you finish 11th grade. 

Anyways I realized that nothing that I ever did or say would bring my father back. So after grieving for what seemed like and eternity I decided to make him proud instead of failing.

Here’s how I did it.

After my worst year in school ever I went back in and started to put in some effort. I paid attention, I studied hard at home. When exams where approaching I studied like never before. (4+ hours every day) I got very good results from this. Finished the year with 21 /24 pts and got into VP.

I also had to deal with a new school and I had to try and make new friends which was not easy.

In summary:

In the beginning it will hurt. A lot. But overtime you will learn that it’s more important to shoot for the sky’s rather than fall to the ground. I kept my motivation and dignity to help myself and make my father proud.

In the end it paid off.


Edit: Wow! I did NOT expect that to do so well. Words could not express how grateful I am to see the response in general let alone the awards. I’ll try my best to respond to all of you but no promises. Thank you so much.

Edit 2: so apparently my message didn’t really come across the full way. Yes a dead person can not feel pride, my point is:

Make yourself proud and do what you think is best for you and do what you *think* would make a deceased loved one proud. This (in my case) worked for me but every person has their different way of grieving and their different way of going about things going forward. Also try your best to pull yourself up no matter how hard life throws you down. I know some people just can’t because of their own guilt or sorrow but at least try.

If you fail I wish you can one day succeed in all of your endeavors and dreams.

Oh and to all of you people that live to downvote comments that make me feel *actually* better

Seriously, fuck you.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/i81pg9/
author:Kaelp667
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:42168
numComments:796
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True