title:
LPT: Look to the sky tonight to catch up to 100 shooting stars per hour!

content:
The Perseid meteor shower peaks on this night, every year! As our planet enters a cloud of space debris from the massive Swift-Tuttle comet we get to see up to 100 shooting stars per hour without the aid of a telescope or anything like that.

Pick a comfortable, dark place and look up into a clear sky for the best results. Make sure you have as much clear sky in your vision as possible. It may also help to angle away from the Moon if it's too bright. Staying oriented north/northeast is your best way to see them though. Visibility may be tougher deeper towards the southern hemisphere. I like to start viewing just before midnight (more on that below), then stay and relax a while. However, any time between 10pm and 4am seems to work well. You can even download mobile applications that utilize your GPS and gyroscope to perfectly locate the Perseus constellation, which is where the meteors appear to originate, hence the name.

Don't worry if you miss the peak due to seeing this late, it being cloudy, etc. This meteor shower lasts until August 24th. You will see less and less by the day but certainly will see something in the right conditions. Happy hunting out there!

Bonus (S)LPT: If your birthday is the 12th, like mine, you don't only get your birthday candle wish, you get hundreds more for each meteor, factually stacking your luck points!


Edit + FAQ:

Thank you everybody for the awards, birthday wishes, and for spreading positivity all over the replies.  I really appreciate it all, it has truly made my day, and I'm glad you are taking interest and enjoying it yourself, with family, and with me. Happy birthday as well to all the Leo's in here. I'm glad we can enjoy a special day like this! I'm continuing to reply to as many people as I can however I've noticed a trend of common questions I'd like to address here.

"Is this only for USA, where can it be seen?"
This is not USA exclusive. This can be seen mostly everywhere. Too deep into the southern hemisphere and too far towards the north pole it becomes difficult or impossible to see them due to not having the proper angle towards the sky or not having sufficient darkness, respectfully.

"When can I see them?"
This depends a lot on your location and local weather. I highly recommend downloading apps such as Sky Map, Sky View, or any other app that can track constellations full time in 360 degrees. There are many free options for both iOS and Android.

"I looked and didn't see anything."
Make sure these conditions are met as best as possible. If the sky isn't in your favor tonight, you still have 2 more weeks!

Follow up on finding ideal viewing conditions.
Looking north/northeast 30-80° above the horizon usually does it. However, this greatly depends on your location. If you are having trouble, using an app you can see where the Perseus constellation will be in the sky for you and at what time. This constellation is where the meteors appear to originate from. The time of maximum darkness varies from area to area. Find out when it will be the darkest, make sure the origin point is in the sky near that time, and hope there is no light pollution or clouds.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/i83iq2/
author:iyaksrayi
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:12587
numComments:393
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True