title:
YSK: While it’s okay for a child to know they’re smart, it’s extremely important to teach them that other people are smart too.

content:
This post may come off as cocky and even a bit racist, but the following was my genuine experience growing up as a black girl. 

Growing up I had a lot of interests that seemed like no one else was interested in. I was a bit of a math prodigy, had an obsession with space, and I was into (what many other kids considered) some pretty weird music. I’ve always just been an abstract thinker in general. There was a large portion of black kids that would poke fun at me for being into “that white people stuff”, and the (any race) kids who *did* enjoy the things I enjoyed were very different from me as well. They were into things like pokémon/WoW and i kinda just found it too cringey to get into myself. I felt like an alien who didn’t belong anywhere, but I always had so many opinions and thoughts to share with *someone*... *anyone*... but had no one to engage with. I had 0 genuine friends, just classmates i’d chat shit with and my counselor who was paid to listen, and it was so depressing. It lead me to convince myself that others must simply be incapable of complex thinking like me (which is a terrible way to think). No bullshit, i’m seriously being 100% truthful when i say this, I remember looking into a mirror bawling my eyes out and saying “I wish i was dumber so i could just be happy!”. 

Many children between 10-14 years old feel this way, but unfortunately they’re treated with eye-rolls and looked at as little arrogant brats. Just take a second to look at it from the kids (extremely unhealthy) point of view: “I’m better in school than my peers, nobody can keep up with my conversations, and every adult who isn’t my parent says i’m really smart for my age. All evidence shows im better”. Clearly this is flawed logic, but ostracizing the kid for thinking this way only reinforces the child’s view that they are better than others, as they are forced to be the only one in their corner of defense. Ostracizing leads to them becoming condescending assholes like year-ago-me. Not until very recently did I read about things like the personality type INTJ and learn what sonder is. It would have humbled me a LOT to learned about these things as a child, but I eventually learned these things as a young adult and it’s helped me understand that im not all that unique after all. But I wish I could have simply been humored by my own parents to realize this much sooner instead of just being shoo’ed away. Now that i’m older, they debate with me and i’ve come to realize just how much they actually know. 

TLDR: The takeaway here is to TALK TO YOUR KIDS! Force yourself to engage in those conversations that are painful to sit through. Don’t let them just sit in their rooms all day, go talk to them. Have those pointless rabbit-hole conversations. Listen to what they have to say and play devil’s advocate. Just don’t make them rely on internet strangers and Kid Cudi to feel like less of a weirdo like I did.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/ia14ia/
author:banoodlebamboozle
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:35616
numComments:656
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True