title:
LPT Walk with confidence even if you have none

content:
Walk with confidence and purpose. Make eye contact and don’t be the first to drop it. 

I know a lot of people will say they are too anxious or they are ugly, etc but this is something I’m doing in exposure therapy and honestly it’s helped immensely. 

Walk with a straight back (as much as you are able to) and keep your head up. If someone approaches you practice making eye contact and smiling. If you look away don’t look down, look forward. 

Walking with a straight back shows self control, helps posture and confidence. 

Keeping your head up shows attentiveness and purpose. 

After making eye contact looking down shows insecurity and defeat but looking straight forward and keeping eye level shows pride in yourself and again confidence. 

It will suck at first. No good thing comes easy. You will feel awkward and not like your yourself but I promise if you practice it WILL get easier and even become natural to you. This helps with insecurity and make it easier to be in public. 

People will want to have what you have. You don’t need to be a 10/10 to make people wish they had your secrets and confidence. 

Now go get em ;)

Edit: So a couple issues came up. 

1) Yes you need to be able to see so looking straight or up might be an issue so you’ll have to learn how to look ahead of you rather than down. 

2) No, you don’t have to make a crazy amount of eye contact or smile and specifically not with random men or people who seem threatening to you. Best to give it a couple seconds of smiling and then look forward or at whatever you were looking at. If the person looks sketchy than yes smiling might not be your best option. Smiling is more for the social benefit but if there is none a nod or simply eye contact for a couple second is fine.

3) You don’t necessarily NEED to smile. A smirk or just a look of cool works too. (A look of cool being just a calm facial expression).

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/iaae0b/
author:[deleted]
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:6978
numComments:290
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True