title:
YSK that blind people use technology successfully and it actually helps us a lot. We're also capable of living a pretty independent life without the ability to see.

content:
I was born blind and have been on the internet since 2003. Many people seem to think that the evolution of mainstream technology is on a growing list of reasons why we (blind people) can't function in the world without the help of a sighted person. This is really far from the truth. I use my flat, touch-screen iPhone every day with the screen totally blacked out. I can explore the screen, hear the names of the things I'm touching, and double-tap them to actually choose them. I sit down at my desk and instantly have access to Windows and Mac computers which I've connected to a mixer and a keyboard switcher so I can control them both at once.

The category of software that makes this possible is called a screen-reader. [NVDA](https://www.nvaccess.org/) is probably the one I use the most on Windows; it's free and open-source. But every mainstream operating system comes with one built-in now, probably in settings under accessibility or something similar, and most of them are really good. They all provide extra touch-screen gestures to navigate without being able to see precisely where everything is, and they have lots of extra keyboard commands to quickly search through apps and websites. Even my Samsung TV, Apple TV and Fire cube all have screen-reading software that reads the current item as I move around. They aren't magic; they can't figure out what's in a picture for instance, and some web designers and programmers make mistakes that take away my access even though it functions just fine for a sighted user. However, anyone reading this should know that a large portion of this website is highly text-based and that's one of the many reasons I enjoy being a user here. Besides that, AI is evolving to a level that allows a computer to recognize objects in photos, and any [OCR](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Optical_character_recognition) app will pull the text out of pictures, which is slightly clunky but doable.

Can you imagine being a person who physically could not use the internet or the features of a modern Smartphone, but also couldn't read print? It was fine when I was a kid and didn't really care: I had Braille and audio books galore because my mom is awesome, and nobody really had the internet. But now, everyone has some kind of computer or phone and the whole world is digital, and I'm an adult who needs to be able to get through the digital world. I've been to college (including partially online classes and a ton of computer-based homework), and currently do a fairly specialized technical job. I've lived completely alone for the past 8 years and have continued to do so throughout "these uncertain times"™ when it would have been unwise to ask anyone for help. Blind people managed without tech for a long time, but it didn't take long for people to work out ways of making computers talk, and Apple believed in the accessibility of their devices far more than most blind people did, adding their first mobile version of the VoiceOver screen-reader to iOS 3.0. Now, my phone has apps on it to help me read print, look up barcodes, get specialized walking and transit directions, and get immediate professional video help if I need to make sure clothing matches or something. I take advantage of services like Uber, Doordash and Instacart so I can travel and shop relatively independently.

The bottom line is that even though the ways we learn and use technology and live our lives are different, they're not necessarily harder. We're just people who operate under the limitations we're given. There are sometimes more limitations, but there are also a lot of ways to work around them, and technology has almost always been part of that solution.

Whenever I mention that I'm blind for any reason, somebody always asks how I could be writing this. Sometimes people ask "who's reading this to you?" To me, this is a small piece of something larger I experience all the time--the automatic assumption that since a particular task is usually done visually, I can't do it. There's no room for maybes and no willingness to do research. People typically can't imagine that we could possibly use a computer because looking at a screen *is* how you use a computer ... right? This is exactly the same logic that gets applied to most things, and it shows in the way we're sometimes treated by strangers, customer service people, and even our own families. It's one thing to have our capabilities questioned by internet strangers, but some of those people are also employers who need to decide whether to hire us, programmers who need to follow standards to make their software accessible to us, or customer service people who just need to stop asking my mom or my Uber driver questions about me as though I can't hear them. (Seriously, why do people do this?)

I honestly believe that in general, people are open-minded and interested in learning, but the biggest uphill battle for myself and so many others is just getting people to stop assuming we're incapable, and start trusting that we know our own limits enough to stop considering us a liability. And don't get me wrong--there are people who don't actually have the skills or experience to do something as well as they think they do, and like any minority, they'll turn around and call someone ableist for pointing out what is obvious. Maybe I've been one of those people at some point in my life. It's easy to feel like the entire world forces us to prove ourselves time and again in a thousand small ways. It's easy to hold onto something as small as the time you told a stranger you knew where you were going four times and they still walked behind you and told you when to turn left, robbing you of the ability to prove you did in fact know where you were going. And to be honest, it's also easy to use a disability as a crutch--to believe that since everyone told you you couldn't do something, you can't do it, and isn't life just a little bit easier when you don't have to try?

I won't be one of those people if I can help it, and I sincerely hope this doesn't unnecessarily shame anyone. I just want people to think that maybe there's another way to accomplish something, and maybe we can actually do that thing you thought we couldn't do. I will also say that for everyone who assumes, there are always ten more people who are really interested and will ask lots of insightful questions which actually make me stop and consider the answer, and a hundred who stay silent because they know I can. I appreciate all of those people.

Thanks so much for reading this far.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/iepjpm/
author:SLJ7
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:2619
numComments:188
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True