title:
YSK if you put the flag up on your mailbox when you don’t have outgoing mail just to let you know when your mail arrives, your mail carrier probably doesn’t like you.

content:
Mail carrier here with 300+ stops on my route and I’m not gonna lie, I get pretty irritated when I have a box with no incoming mail that has it flag up solely so they can see that the mail carrier has stopped. 

Let me explain. I have a decent sized route. Not the biggest but it’s a full day of delivering usually. When the mail volume is lower and I don’t have to stop at all the mail boxes I get to go home earlier. Woo hoo! It’s a big deal in the heavy season. 
Now let’s say you go check your mail and there’s nothing there so you decide “Ok I’m gonna put my flag up to see when damnitcortnie stops even though I have no out going mail”. Guess what? I’m going to stop and lean out my window (I don’t have a right hand drive cause they are expensive!), put your flag down, then see you didn’t have mail and I was stopped because you’re too busy or lazy to check if the mail has come. 

But damnitcortnie, what’s the big deal? You get paid to stop! You’re right I do. And you know what? I really like my job and stopping isn’t that big of a deal except when I’m running behind or you know, gonna get home a little earlier because it was a light day! This happens A LOT and it’s not sweet old ladies that have trouble walking to their boxes. We usually deliver those peoples mail to their door. It’s lazy younger and middle aged families!

You can buy mailboxes that have little flaps that flip up when your mailbox lid is opened to alert you that you have received mail! Please buy one of those instead of making your carrier stop when you don’t have any mail for them to pick up! That’s NOT what the flag on your box is for. 


I will put the flag down and drive off and you still have to walk out there to see you didn’t get mail. 


Also while I’m here... stop putting your trash cans out next to your mail box. You not only make it impossible to deliver your mail, you make it hard for the trash guys too! I place my trash can a good 10 feet away from my mail box on trash day so they can both do their jobs without any obstruction!

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/iga9o1/
author:damnitcortnie
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:5708
numComments:474
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True