title:
LPT: when moving, put aside £50 for three things you should do within one day of moving into the new property

content:
I have lived in 9 properties in 10 years and with the most recent 3 properties, I have done these three things on moving day. It makes me feel more secure and more 'at home'. These will seem obvious to some, but not to everyone!

1. Change all locks. Front door, back door, window locks (if there are any - but actively look for them). Costs up to £15 for most locks and they're easy to refit or you can hire a professional if you prefer. This will cost more, but trust me, the cost is more than worth it for your piece of mind. Anyone could have a copy of the key for the lock.

Note: I'm unable to change the title but this might all cost more than £50 in total depending on how many locks you have to replace! Still worth it though!

If you're renting, tell your landlord/letting agent that you are doing this - they generally don't mind as long as you agree to give them a replacement key (as they always keep a spare in their office).

2. Change the toilet seat. Don't feel like you're in a public bathroom at home! Simple, effective and again, shouldn't cost more than £15 /$/€. It's really easy to change them and it's a good feeling afterwards.

3. Change the shower head. Again, really cheap, really easy and gives you that peace of mind 'new home' freshness. Shower heads build up bacteria and if it hasn't been changed in years, or hasn't been used for a couple of weeks if the property has been vacant, this is especially important. As you have no way of knowing how long it has been sitting there, just change it!

In my experience, you can do these three things for less than £100 (depending on how many locks there are or if you hire someone) and in less than an hour.

Bonus notes: spend some time vacuuming (especially before putting down large pieces of furniture you don't plan on moving again, like the bed) and use antibacterial spray on the kitchen sides and in cupboards. No matter how clean everything looks, a quick once over can never hurt!

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/igwsg4/
author:mollali
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:13143
numComments:556
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True