title:
LPT: Keep a list of gift ideas for the people in your life

content:
For maybe the past 5 years now, whenever I get close enough to someone that I feel like I'm going to be regularly buying them gifts (for birthdays or holidays mostly) I make an empty list in my phone with their name on the top. Then I wait. As time goes on, people have a tendency to mention things they really like or want. Whenever that happens, I just quietly add to the list. 

Watching TV and your girlfriend casually ways she really likes the robe that some woman on screen is wearing? Added to the list. Walking through Hallmark with my mom and she says she really likes these small glass statues l? List.

Now it's [non-denominational winter holiday] and while everyone else is scrambling for a present, I can rest easy because I can just consult the list and get everyone something that they will both love and never see coming.

I've learned that the real power of the list comes after it has accumulated entries. Once this happens you can combine gift ideas in a way that the other person could never expect. While going through an art mueseum 8 months ago with my (now ex) girlfriend, she casually mentions that she really likes this painting. I look at the title and author, take a picture, and add it to the list. She also really likes jigsaw puzzles. Once I noticed that I added it to the list. For her last birthday I was looking through the list to see if I could think of anything and I decided to get her a custom jigsaw puzzle of this one painting that she loved and has since never seen again. She was stoked when she opened it and it's been her favorite puzzle since (even after the breakup).

I went from being a terrible gift giver to being incredible at it. People are genuinely excited to recoece a gift from me now. Seeing their face light up every time their birthday or a holiday comes around makes this a huge payoff for basically zero effort.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/igycgt/
author:vrcngtrx_
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:34763
numComments:579
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True