title:
LPT: The secret to a good colonoscopy is to rub lemons on your tongue before you need to drink the prep liquid

content:
Colonoscopy Prep

In light of a Chadwick Bosemans passing a lot of you might be thinking about getting a colonoscopy done. I have Crohn’s disease and have had to do a few of them in the last 5 years and though I would offer some advice for what to experience. 

You might need to do prep where you drink this terrible overly salty liquid, the one I do also tastes like fruit punch. You probably think the flavouring helps, your very wrong. Here’s a few things I do to make drinking it a little better:

1. Make sure the liquid is cold, it helps a bit

2. Chop up a lemon into wedges and rub it ALL over your tongue to try to counter the salty taste. I also like to keep the lemon by my nose as I find the smell helps with the smell from the liquid

3. To drink the liquid you are going to want a straw that comes with bubble tea, they are about a centimetre in diameter. You want to place the straw at the very back of your mouth and then try to drink as much of the liquid before you taste it. The second you get a taste stop drinking and put the lemon on your tongue. 

4. Repeat till the liquid is gone. 


Also from the prep you are going to be shitting liquid out your ass for hours, sound fun? You will want to drink as much water as you can because if you’re dehydrated they will have trouble getting an IV in you the next day. 

The colonoscopy itself is not very hard. When you wake up and you feel like you need to fart ask to go to the bathroom. The nurse will tell you to just fart but for me personally it’s always been my body expelling the lube they used for the scope, go to the bathroom and sit there for a few minutes to let the lube get out of you. 

Now your done for the day and you can go eat the best meal of your life. 

Hope this helps anyone thinking about doing a colonoscopy. 

Rest in Power Chadwick

Edit: So just woke up and would like to thanks everyone for the responses. The awards were unexpected. Reading through the comments and glad this can help people.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/iiopr0/
author:aquascorpio
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:17981
numComments:797
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True