title:
YSK that straws-free campaigns are a hoax

content:
 Why YSK

Don't get me wrong, it's much better if you use a biodegradable straw or drink straight from the glass, but the no-straw campaigns don't really solve anything. They are used by large companies to blame people for plastic pollution, while they themselves feel free to continue dumping millions of tons a year into the ocean. The top 10 largest food companies are responsible for more than 80% of all plastic dumped.

Furthermore, it is very rare for turtles or other marine wildlife to be killed by a straw, the most common situation for them to die is being entangled in dumped fishing gears (which are also the most common plastic product thrown into the ocean with more than 600,000 tons per year) and plastic bags as turtles often mistake them for jellyfish.

That means we can´t help? No. There are other ways we can help, but the real solution depends on this companies waste management and the goverments laws about the issue.

Edit: Apparently I misused the word "hoax" 
What I was referring to is that companies glorify these campaigns, attributing themselves to the role of environmentalists when in reality they are only transferring the blame for water pollution, washing their hands in the process for being the biggest polluters, practically at no cost to them. And incidentally taking the publicity.
I'm aware there are companies who take more seriously this issue and have been modifying their plastic disposal protocols and/or their dependence of this material, betting for other eco-friendly solutions and i applaud them for really taking responsability of their carbon print.
It all depends on the people behind and government regulations, and we really need them, because without the big companies doing their part there's not much we as individuals can do.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/ikatlk/
author:Can17272
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:19279
numComments:704
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True