title:
LPT: you are not as good at swimming as you think you are and you shouldn’t over estimate your skill

content:
So I do a lot of white water sports and generally spend a lot of time on the water and I’ve heard/ seen too many stories of people who have only been in a pool or small pond and never been where they can’t just swim over to the shore. But they have never been in a bad situation on the water so they can’t handle it and they swim out in a river or lake that has a current or is just big and all of a sudden they are tired and the current is picking up the the shore it 100 yards away. 

I was on a class 3 rapid with some friends and we were canoeing and these two guys flipped and the two guys were fine but me and 3 others headed over to assist them and me and two of the people had been in water like that so we could hop eddies and such. The other person hadn’t been in water like that at all and they got halfway out there and grabbed a rock and panicked. They didn’t want to get off the rock and wouldn’t move. We did eventually talked her back to shore. That person stuck on the rock? She was a lifeguard. 

I promise you the water will win if you don’t know what your doing.

Please please don’t drown and read up on swift water safety so other don’t have to put their ass on the line for you.

Edit: I’m gonna add some tips but these are by no means a substitute for a professional teaching you.
The first is TRRG (throw row reach go) meaning that swimming is a last resort for saving someone and you should use a throw rope, paddle out there and try to reach them all before you get in the water.

NOSE AND TOES, meaning if you’re going down a rapid you keep you’re nose and toes above the water and toes facing down stream. You should float on your back going feet first because you would rather have your feet hit a rock then your head.

And lastly never and I mean never put your feet on the bottom when you are facing down stream. The reason is because the current will push your feet under a rock and you will not be able to pull them out and the current will rush over your back and push you on the bottom. A PFD will not save you in this situation.  if you absolutely need to put your feet down make sure you are standing backwards.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/iklgv8/
author:12093651
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:14561
numComments:651
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True