title:
YSK: Having your dog stay overnight at a facility is stressful for them and packing them more than just their kibble really does help

content:
Why YSK: I work at a dog daycare that also offers overnights and nothing is more discouraging than to open their "from home bag" and to see that their parent(s) only packed kibble. 
Of course we have tons and tons of blankets to make your dog comfortable - along with snuggles - but that doesn't make your dog less stressed out. Just packing your dog's favorite toy (plushie or a chew), some of their favorite treats, their at home blanket or something that smells like you (a worn t-shirt), really goes a long way to help them feel comfortable. This is especially hard for rescue dogs.

When they stay overnight for a while and the only thing that they recognize is their kibble, there's a good chance that they'll stay stressed out and stop eating as much. Maybe include some wet food with instructions for the handlers on when they should be given that or mixed with their food.

We do our best to make them comfortable, but if you have to overnight your dog for a longer period of time, please pack something extra for them. Spoil them!

Edit: I've read most of the comments so far and there are tons with great advice.

I should add that I work in a facility that specializes in dog daycare and offers enrolled dogs the opportunity to have overnights. In order for someone to have their dog stay overnight, the dog needs to attend daycare at least one day each week. 

These dogs are familiar with the facility, routine and the staff. We know their quirks and behavioral issues as well and we take that into consideration we setting up their sleeping space.

We also receive a very detailed care sheet that has been written by the parents. This includes things such as how much food to give, how many times they eat each day, medication, toy/blanket inventory etc.

We play soft music during the evening and we do also offer a kong for them as well. 

I should cleared that up to begin with. If you are looking to board a pet, always check with the facility or vet first! Due to current conditions with covid-19 and sanitary reasons, they may not accept additional items for your pet. 

Thanks for the comments and advise!

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/imzmfg/
author:goronbuds
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:13617
numComments:200
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True