title:
LPT: After a miscarriage, do a few online searches for "where to buy cute dog clothes" so instead of being targeted with ads that remind you of your loss, you will be comforted by cats in tuxedos and puppies in panda costumes

content:
One of the hardest parts can be waiting for your feed to catch up. Even with an ad blocker, some social media will offer painful reminders of what you just lost.  After all, it is a huge industry. A few quick searches in all engines for your favorite animal in cute outfits with a "where to buy" so the algorithm is sure to pay attention- and before you know it, you've got your own traveling source of aww. **Note: this works even if you're not grieving and just want a less horrible ad experience online.***

Edit: spelling of Aww :)

Edit 2: HOLY LORD. I went outside to garden and came in to this. 15k! Front page! I was so afraid to post publicly about this, and the fact that my first outreach touched so many people in any way is genuinely healing me right now. Thank you so much, Reddit. With that, I'm pretty sure mods deleted/locked the post because I mentioned another dog-related sub in my text.  I had read the rules before posting and didn't know it was wrong.  I'm sorry and it's been removed.  

...

Hopefully this can get back up, but it seems hilariously appropriate for me to make a technical error on my first viral post when so many of you have reminded me of the technical solution of ad blockers for my original issue.  To clarify: I do have one installed on my pc, but I am not very tech-savvy and ads still pop up here and there (especially on mobile which I use predominantly.)  I suppose I could have done a better job of troubleshooting the problem technically... but when I had this idea and tried it, I genuinely found happiness seeing ads for puppies in raincoats instead of non-stop babies.  I still appreciate the advice, and will keep learning how to be better at both Reddit and the internet in general :)

But mostly... if this does get re-posted and anyone reads this... *thank you.* I feel like something beautiful just came from the saddest few days of my life. I know it's just internet karma, and I know it's not "real."  But it *is* made up of *real people*. And you very real strangers made this girl feel a whole lot better today.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/iocluy/
author:TashInAwe
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:49156
numComments:704
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True