title:
YSK: Suicide is not the answer. Healing is possible, and you won’t always feel like this.

content:
Why YSK:

Today is World Suicide Prevention Day. Suicide prevention is important because it can destigmatize suicidal ideation and help connect people to resources they might otherwise not know about. 

YSK because you probably interact with someone on a regular basis who is or has been suicidal. Only one in ten people who contemplate die by suicide. Your kindness to those around you can be a beacon of hope. Your willingness to sit with and listen to someone who is struggling can make a difference. Your ability to take someone seriously can save a life. YSAK that asking someone if they are suicidal does not “plant the seed” for them to begin considering it. 

YSK if you struggle with suicidal ideation, you’re not alone. Speaking from experience, it feels incredibly isolating to consider ending your own life. It felt, at times, terrifying, numb, rational, and above all, like the only viable option I had. But it wasn’t. I’m here to tell you that it can get better. 

Some resources if you or a loved one is struggling: 

-Suicide Prevention Helpline: 800-273-8255 (I have heard some people have not had a good experience with this one. I have called it as someone scared for another person, and I can say it was helpful in that instance and helped connect me to a local crisis response team.) 

-Samaritans (UK &amp;amp; Ireland): 116 123

-National Alliance on Mental Illness: [NAMI](https://www.nami.org/Home) 
NAMI has representation in every US state, and can connect you to support groups, online discussion groups, and online video resources. You can also call the crisis line at 800-950-NAMI.

-Crisis Text Line: 741741 (US) 
You can send “HELP”, “NAMI”, “TWLOHA”, or “CHAT” to start a conversation with someone while in a crisis. They can help you find additional resources. 

-[Emotions Anonymous](https://emotionsanonymous.org) to connect with group recovery meetings 

-[AuntBertha.com](https://www.auntbertha.com) to search for free or reduced cost resources near you 

-[What’s Up App](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.jacksontempra.apps.whatsup&amp;amp;hl=en_US) uses Cognitive Behavioral Therapy and Acceptance Commitment Therapy Tools to help you deal with a number of mental health issues 

-To Write Love on Her Arms [twloha.com](https://twloha.com) connects you to local mental health resources and offers scholarships for those seeking treatment 

I know there are more. Please add them in the comments if you know of more. 

More than anything, YSK that I have felt your pain and I know your struggle, and so have countless others. I’m going to keep trying. I’m going to keep striving to get better. I hope you will too.

EDIT: Wow, so much hate in the comments. Just to clarify, I don’t think Suicide is selfish. At all. My intention was never to condemn anyone who has thought or followed through with that intention. I just wanted to say the things that would have helped me when I was hanging on by a thread in case someone else was struggling. I do believe that healing is possible. I can say that is an opinion and if you disagree, then we can disagree. If there is someone out there who is able to and wants to get better, I want you to know, from my own personal experience, it is possible. My apologies to anyone I offended. I would never want to tell anyone how they should feel, but rather attempt to provide options other than suicide. 

Thank you for the awards!

EDIT 2: The harsh criticisms are getting to me and I have turned off notifications from this post. If you have read this far, which seems unlikely, know that I never meant to hurt or offend, and I have held the means to end my own life in my hands in the past month. Well done, Reddit, living up to your reputation as one of the worst and most toxic places on the Internet. Thanks for reading.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/ipyhqw/
author:paperwhitney
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:1083
numComments:127
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True