title:
LPT: What to do if it's too late to evacuate from wildfires.

content:
G'day mate! Looks bloody awful over in America, those wildfires are right nasty. Lucky, us Aussies have been surviving through all that and much worse for at least a couple centuries, and I'm here to give you guys the inside info on how to survive. 



1 - If you live on an upslope, ridge, or narrow forested road, get the fuck out early - no help will come. 


People here who stayed then changed their minds later, and couldn't escape because trees fell within minutes and blocked exit routes.


Firefighters were either unable to get in, or were forbidden due to extreme risk of being cut off themselves - 1200 litres of water in a Cat7 is like pissing into a hurricane, especially if you're up on a ridge.




2 - if actually caught and unable to escape. dig in and cover with  DRY WOOLEN BLANKETS!

Please fill your bathtub before it hits - water tanks will melt real fast and you'll have no water - the thing that MIGHT make the difference between life and death could be as simple as layers of wool blankets,  a low sheltered concrete corner, some sheets of tin, some DRY wool blankets, and one moist towel to protect from radiant heat.

Wet clothing or sheets are inferior to a wool blanket and you will boil alive. Do not cover any yourself in anything wet!




3 - If defending your house - wool or cotton long sleeves and leather boots, and wear LEATHER GLOVES if possible. You can throw burning stuff back but without gloves, no way.




4 - Remember that the only safe area to run to is often INTO an area already burnt - you can also survive by having a shallow grave and laying in that under dry blankets, a layer of wet stuff and tin, and breathe through a wet cloth to avoid suffocation. You'll collapse real fucking fast without oxygen and remember also, many houses are made with plastics and toxic gas-causing materials so.... yeah.... stay safe out there and honestly, if you live on a ridge or uphill slope... run now.  Your life is worth more than stuff.



5 - If you think you can defend, don't forget to protect your water tank and exposed poly lines - if that goes, you're fucked. 


People on gravity feed systems, this is your weak point. We were lucky enough to have a small Honda pump and Cat7, but our tank was on fire several times - if that had gone, we'd be gone.  Remember this, especially if on a bush block with some tank uphill off in the scrub. If you're not gonna be able to save that tank, forget about it.  You're going to lose your house, get out now.




6 - Remember, fire can move up to 400km (250miles) per hour uphill. If you change your mind and live on a ridge, you are quite likely fucked.  Don't die for stuff.  Escape, and we can hunt down the corrupt fucks who made this happen later. Channel that anger to the ones who sold us out and gave away our water and our future to line their own pockets.

Stay safe America!

: EDIT :


I had no idea this'd blow up so much, and it's great to see so many people invested in keeping fire safe, you're all fuckin legends 💪 and thanks to everyone who's put forward awards. I'm not sure what they do, but I appreciate y'all care so much.

: POINTS WORTH CLARIFYING :

A Cat7 is a type of firefighting engine available in Australia. Not sure what your American equivalent would be.

NEVER use water to cover your blankets or yourself, EVER. Use it as an external barrier to embers on the outermost towels.

Actually I'm a chick ✌️

Large bodies of water are good to venture out into if necessary, but keep in mind you need a decent level of physical fitness to maintain treading water whilst also inhaling smoke at the same time.

NEVER use synthetics or anything with a synthetic blend. Wool is best on a budget, duvetyne is probably the best material available, 100% cotton towels will also work in a pinch. Never synthetic .

: EDIT 2 :

Wow this really blew up. I'm fucking honoured, and I'm glad to see so many people out there really giving a shit about fire safety. 

All your suggestions, feedback, and positive discussion really reignite (haha) my faith in humanity. We can all get through this if we work together 💪

I'm working my way through all your comments (and there really are a lot of them), and trying to answer as many questions as I can.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/iqd44x/
author:PUNCH-THE-SUN
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:73201
numComments:2244
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True