title:
YSK that if you ever receive something for free from a company by a nice employee, don't mention it in any online reviews.

content:
Why YSK: two reasons. 


1. If they did this as a nice gesture or a thank you and the review reaches money hungry management, they may not be so appreciative of the employee's good deed. They could end up in serious trouble, despite gaining a loyal customer or a great review. 



2. If an independent seller includes a free gift or gives a nice discount, others reading reviews may expect the same. This could lead to choosy beggar customers, the seller losing money trying to make everyone happy, or the seller stopping these gifts altogether. 


This goes for brick and mortar stores, online shops, restaurants, etc. When I worked in customer service, people were just so awful that even the most basic human decency made me think they were an angel. One time as a server at a chain restaurant, I gave a table a free dessert for being so understanding and patient during a dinner rush. They left a great review that my boss would have loved... had they not mentioned the $11 dessert. Over such a trivial thing that a manager would have even done themselves in that business and happens all the time, I got lectured about how "if we gave ten dollars to every table we'd be out of business bla bla bla." 

Be appreciative of the free gift and leave a positive review! You just never know the type of boss they have, so try to avoid them possibly getting in trouble.



Edit: I am *not* encouraging anyone to give free stuff away. I'm saying if **YOU** encounter an employee that happens to give you a discount or gives you a free drink or whatever it is, the best thing for everyone is to not mention it. 

Edit 2: retailers have insurance for stolen merchandise. A minimum wage employee is not hurting a billion dollar company by letting you have a pack of baby wipes or a discount on a pastry. Restaurants include "freebies" in their budget. Have you ever been to a restaurant?? This covers birthday desserts, free appetizer for long wait time, spill tab, sendbacks, dead food, etc. The restaurant business expects these type of things, but even though management is quick to comp a kids meal just to shut a table of Karen's up doesn't mean they will be understanding if their server making $2.13 an hour does the same.

Edit 3: im not talking about if someone offers you something free/discounted in *exchange* for a review? Obviously that's different.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/ir6no8/
author:ocular-pat-down
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:26075
numComments:402
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True