title:
YSK while eating undercooked steak is relatively safe, you should always completely cook ground beef

content:
**Why YSK:** The reason eating undercooked or rare steaks is still considered safe (not 100% though) is because most of the pathogens and illness-causing bacteria live on the surface of the cut beef. When you sear a steak, the surface comes into direct contact with a very hot cooking surface, essentially killing off any harmful bacteria.

Ground beef, on the other hand, has undergone an additional step of processing - the grinding. Put simply, what this does is it mixes the surface bacteria of the beef cuts INTO the ground beef mixture. So now you not only have potentially harmful bacteria on the outside surface of the ground beef, but it's mixed evenly throughout as well.

When you're cooking that burger, the bacteria that was once going to be killed directly over your fire or on your pan now lives INSIDE your patty. You request that patty medium or even medium-well, your risk of food borne illness greatly increases.

I'm sure many of you have ordered undercooked burgers with the mentality that "I love medium-rare or medium steaks, so I want a medium-rare or medium burger!" Heck, I have as well! And if you didn't get sick, you honestly just got very lucky!

Edit: LOL, it never ceases to amaze me, the people that find ways to twist the logic of a YSK post to insert an uncommon or rare anomaly. If you're ordering fucking tartare, you should understand you're ordering straight up raw meat and you should definitely trust your restaurant that's preparing it. This dish isn't without its risks, people.

EDIT 2: Guys this a YSK post, which means "you should know". This isn't a "If you don't follow this rule, then we'll kill you" post. You can do whatever the fuck you want, lol. This is just knowledge that should be pretty well-known. If you like undercooked burgers, then GREAT. Eat them all you'd like - but you should just know the above. There's a higher risk. Does that mean you'll get sick 1 out of every 5 times you eat? No, not necessarily. Does it mean the chances go from 1 out of 10,000 to 1 out of 1,000? Most likely. That's a drastic uptick in chances you'd get sick.

Holy shit, guys. "This is fear mongering" lol. Fucking Reddit.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/iwodnu/
author:Svargas05
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:1224
numComments:145
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True