title:
LPT: Always know your exit strategy, even if you have no desire/need to exit. From simple things like buildings and family lunches, to the big things like marriages, jobs, housing, etc - knowing how you'll how be ok if it goes downhill can make all the difference.

content:
This is not saying plan for the worst, but know what your options are so you don't feel trapped in a relationship, situation or job. Having that agency can make staying a considered choice not just the way your life happens to be going.

It also comes with huge piece of mind. 


What if you get evicted? Then you can short term stay with x y or z, your belongings can go to xy, you can get moving help from such and such.

If you get fired? If your spouse becomes abusive? What ducks do you need to get in line to make that transition smoother? Talk to professionals, get the information and make informed choices. Knowing you have options can make all the difference, and help you take control before shit hits the fan. 



This can also work for simple things: knowing you can leave a party any time can mean you enjoy it more and end up staying longer than expected. Knowing you can change doctors or babysitters means you'll appreciate what keeps you coming back to your usual ones while also not feeling trapped if the service level slips.


Sometimes the exit strategy will suck, it will involve living in your car or stepping on toes at the family lunch - but the important thing is you know you have that option, and you will survive it, and can go on to create a better life from your choices.



EDIT:
A lot of people are taking this to be a real negative post, it's not meant to be. It's meant in the spirit of giving you agency and control, choice and a safety net.
There is a difference between always thinking how things can go wrong, and knowing you have your bases covered: the first will cripple your life, the second will leave you free to enjoy it.

It's so nice to be romantic and feel like everything is forever. But people change, situations change, unexpected tragedy can strike - knowing you have a way out oftern means you never have to take it. That makes staying in your relationship/job/housing/etc your choice, your wholehearted choice, not just something you're stuck with. You can't plan for everything, but you can have your emergency fund, your support network and the skills to help yourself up again if you fall. Knowing you've got the net to catch you will leave you free to enjoy life, take risks and not stress about the future.


However I apologize to anyone who's anxiety this has brought up - if you were living with a negative outlook or an anxiety disorder this is not helpful. In the cases where your brain is always telling you what could go wrong I recommend saying 'yes, but what if it goes right?' and playing those paths out in your head.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/iypoqc/
author:ohhhokthen
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1594
numComments:116
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True