title:
YSK: If you want to start lifting, you're going to feel weaker than you actually are for a couple weeks because your brain is lazier than your muscles and doesn't want to change.

content:
Why YSK: I've heard a lot of stories from people who give up on working out because they feel weak, or they go for a month but don't look or feel any different. They get embarrassed because they feel weaker than they expected. Well, you aren't, your brain is just lazy!

I had never heard this before I forced myself to take things seriously and got a trainer a couple years ago after failing to make progress on my own and feeling terrible. This was what they told me and I wanted to share: Your body has likely never had to fire a single dedicated muscle to move something. Ever. You have almost always been able to "cheat" moving something by using your core strength, keeping your arms in close and "putting your back into it". You're making up for your weaker muscles by giving them mechanical advantages in every way you can. So your brain has literally no idea *how* to contract your bicep(for example) by itself and wants to cheat. If you're using a machine, you might even catch yourself trying to get under the weight, even though logically you know it won't help. That's your brain fighting back against what is basically just seen as a massive waste of effort and an inefficient way to move something. You are literally fighting yourself.

Your first few weeks, if not your first couple *months* depending on frequency can feel embarrassing because you don't think you're doing it right, or it doesn't feel right, or you feel like you're getting nowhere. Your brain has to literally build the ability to focus and fire a muscle properly, and that takes time, and it's frustrating. As we age, it hates building new neural pathways even more, and it fights against your conscious efforts. It can be done, though!

The only way forward is to do the motion, with a comfortable weight, over and over until it gets there. This can't be rushed, it just takes time and consistent form and effort. You'll notice when it does, because things will start to feel better. You might have gained little to no muscle mass but you'll be able to move a little more weight. That can be confusing, but it's just your soggy meat-hunk finally getting the picture. Machines are actually great for this because in most cases you can't cheat the motion, which would do you no good at all.

If you feel embarrassed because you think you look weak, or foolish in a room full of people who aren't struggling, just remember that they went through the same thing once. They're probably mentally supporting you because they know getting started sucks. I felt terrible and out of place for a long time, but then suddenly you don't.

So don't give up on working out. Don't give up on your body. Don't feel embarrassed because you're struggling to literally curl 5 pounds(me). Keep at it, and understand that your brain is just a stubborn bit of hardware that has to be trained and changed with you. Put that work in. Plus, then you can do the Terry Crews thing where you bounce your pecs around.  


&amp;#x200B;

Edit: For the curious or concerned here's an [interesting read about this](https://journals.lww.com/acsm-essr/Fulltext/2003/04000/Training_Induced_Changes_in_Neural_Function.2.aspx).   
TL;DR:  "Resistance training elicits adaptive changes in the nervous system as well as in the morphology of the trained muscles (Fig. 6).  In particular, neural adaptation mechanisms are important for the  increases in maximal eccentric strength and rate of force development  observed with training."  


and to clarify, like I said above this  was some early advice from my long-time personal trainer, who is \*FAR\* more qualified than I will ever be, and this is a post to share some insight into a common struggle.  


url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/j2wd3y/
author:StoicJ
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:37534
numComments:600
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True