title:
LPT: If your car is damaged in accident and you’re not at fault, also file a diminished value claim to recoup the loss in value of your car due to being in an accident. If you don’t like the offer you get, hire an independent appraiser.

content:
EDIT: this only applies to the USA and varies by state 

My wife’s 2017 Jeep Grand Cherokee was recently rear ended. After having about $5k worth of damage repaired, I filed a diminished value claim. Progressive Insurance (the insurance of the person who was at fault) offered me $400. I said no. They then offered $600. I said no. The body shop who fixed the car recommended an independent appraiser who they said almost always gets you more money. I paid him $300 for an appraisal report that showed that the value based on auctions etc is between 2-3k. I sent that report to Progressive. They reviewed it and then had their appraiser do their own research and then contacted my appraiser to negotiate a “settlement”. We agreed on $2100. 

The independent appraiser told me not enough people know about diminished value claims. He said if you have a later model car with under X miles (varies by state), it’s a no brainer claim but never accept the insurance company’s offer because they will low ball you a lot until you bring them evidence otherwise. All this cost me was $300 and 45 min of my time to have the appraiser see and take photos of the vehicle.


EDIT 1: As someone posted below, the ability to get a claim does depend on the make and model of your car and it's value. I should add that the independent adjuster I talked to gave me a ballpark value of what he thought the claim should be before I ever paid him a penny. He did say in some cases, it may not be worth it but knowing the details of my car (age, mileage, condition), I was getting low balled. You mileage may vary.

EDIT 2: As many have stated, Diminished Value laws vary by state so please check state laws before filing as to not waste your time (or money). Every state may have different time frames for when you can file. 

EDIT 3: This is based on my experience in America. I have no idea how this works globally outside the US, if at all.

EDIT 4: wow. Did not expect this to blow up like it did. As I stated above, you mileage may vary, it varies by state so do your homework, and my experience was specific to the US. I didn’t know about this and my first experience turned out to be a positive one. Some of you are screaming that these claims are worthless and you rarely come out ahead. Everyone is an adult and can make their own decisions about what to do. I’m just providing the tip because it worked for me so like all tips in life, sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn’t.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/j5hyhu/
author:djseto
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:46639
numComments:777
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True