title:
LPT: Your cover letter should be less about you, and more about the company you’re applying for (template included)

content:
I was helping my roommate who is a recent grad with her cover letter and mentioned a template I had written up earlier this year. She has had bad luck applying to lots of jobs and not getting responses to even get to the interview stage. When I read the template to her she was surprised that a lot of the template told her to refer to specifics from the company’s website or ad. The most important thing you can do with a cover letter is make the business explicitly picture you as part of their team! The best way to do that is to help them visualize it by relating key parts of your experience or personality back to the specific position. Going the extra mile to read through the company’s website and include details from there will really set you apart! At the end of the day, the most interesting thing to anyone is themselves, and that’s what we pay the most attention to. If you get the recruitment manager to start thinking of how you relate to them/their team/their company, you’ll be much more memorable. I’m including the template for you guys to utilize as well. 



Hello (recruitment manager),

 
I came across your advertisement for (X job) at (Y company) and I would like to submit my resume for your consideration. The position at (Y company) is interesting to me for (reason) and your company sounds like a great place for me to start my career after successfully graduating with my degree in (subject) from (university). Your company’s mission statement is (X) and that applies to my vision because (explanation). I could see myself working for your company long-term in (x position) if given the opportunity to mature and grow under your leadership and guidance.

I believe I would be a good fit for your company because I have (unique skill or experience) that relates to (job description). I am looking for a company like yours where I can learn to apply my skills in (x, y, and z) that I developed through (college courses/experience). (Final sentences specific to job posting: does the environment sound good? Is it close by? Is it work from home? Take a specific detail from job posting and elaborate on it to make it look like you thoroughly read the ad/company website and to get the manager to start picturing you in their environment).
Thank you so much for your consideration and I hope to hear back from you soon!
 

Regards,

(name)

(phone number) 

(Attached resume)

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/j6payj/
author:lunatoons291
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:2168
numComments:71
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True