title:
LPT: when one of your employees does something very well, email them explaining what they did and what positive impact it had, and cc your boss. This will build their reputation and also your own.

content:
Your boss likely doesn’t know them as well as you do; this allows them to get kudos from higher up. 

Explaining the positive impact of your employee’s actions allows your boss to understand more of what your team does. It also forces you to think about the positive impact in a way you may not have. 

And this process makes it easier for you to recommend your people for raises/promotions/other recognition because you’ve already helped build/spread a positive reputation for them. 

Then save the email (and your boss’s response, if they respond) in your employee’s personnel file to refer back to when you’re writing their annual performance review or award!

Edited to add: Do this for things they do that are exceptional - not ‘thanks for how you always show up for work on time’ but ‘thanks for saving that valuable client who was about to leave but you discovered how to resolve their really complex issue/working with another division to share your expertise to help them build their new process that will help the company reach x more people/that great interview that the governor personally commented on, it made us look really good”

Also, know your people. If they are embarrassed by direct praise, then just praise them behind their back to others. If they prefer quiet recognition or a cash/time off reward, do that.

And if they do always show up to work on time, and that’s notable, mention it to them. Don’t cc others or exaggerate how big a deal it is; on the other hand just because it’s their job doesn’t mean they don’t deserve to be recognized for it. “Hey, just want to say I noticed you’re always extremely punctual; may not seem like a big deal to you but it says a lot to me about how you respect other people’s time. Thanks”

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/jah1kn/
author:Cleverusername531
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:46204
numComments:659
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True