title:
LPT: Learning to cook takes time, but it isn't hard, and the results will change your life

content:
Start watching YouTube food videos. Watch informative videos that teach you basic skills and basic dishes.  Gordon Ramsay has a great series where he teaches basic kitchen techniques and then how to make dishes using those techniques.  

Get yourself a good cookbook, something for someone just starting to cook. Jamie Oliver's Food Revolution is fantastic for this - it is designed to get you cooking simple, tasty meals you can make any time.  

Buy some basic kitchen equipment - nothing fancy or special: one large sauce pan, a small nonstick skillet, assorted wooden spoons, a whisk, a few spatulas, a good large pot, a collander or strainer. 

Pay attention to what you like if you eat out or order in, or when others cook. Start savoring your food - pay attention to salt levels in your food. Note the sweetness or bitterness on food.  Eat slower so you can learn about tastes.  Talk about food to others. If eating with others, comment on what you like or don't like about a dish. This gets you thinking about how food is prepared.  

Commit to making a handful of meals each week. Learn basics, like how to fry or scramble eggs; how to make rice; how to make a basic pasta sauce; how to stir fry vegetables; how to oven-roast veggies or potatoes. Write out your food menu for the week and plan those meals - it doesn't have to be every meal. Just do it for two or three meals each week. 

Do these things and you'll build your skillset, your vocabulary, and your appreciation of food. Soon you'll find yourself exploring more, looking for new flavors or dishes.  This is the path to becoming a cook and enriching your life with food you love.whwn you start cooking for yourself, you'll begin to appreciate food more.  When you start to cook for or share your food with others, you'll find yourself expanding and enriching your community as you break bread with others.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/jcof0e/
author:bracekyle
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:2829
numComments:217
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True