title:
LPT: If the company you work for ever has a team meeting and one of the leaders/execs says “If you’re just here for a paycheck, leave”. Leave.

content:
I used to be a Training Specialist for a garbage call center some of you may know, called Sykes. It’s a third party call center that takes contracts/calls for other clients such as Intuit, Expedia, and many more. 

They generally pay as little as possible and are set out to hire anyone with a pulse that can make it through the day without actively using hard drugs on site. (Though that’s not always the case.)

Ive sat in front of hundreds of new hires and listened to upper management give the same speech about how everyone is there because they LOVE working with their clients and that there is endless possibilities within the company. Without fail at some point someone would say that dumb phrase. “If you’re just here for a paycheck, leave”

My tip, If you’re working for a company like this, is leave. You’re worth more than that company will ever pay you for. Very rarely did it end up being the path to success that was promised to you during training and the interview process. At the end of the day the most valuable thing you bring to a company is yourself, make sure you’re getting paid what you’re worth.

Edit: Obviously I don’t mean storm out of the room like a angsty teenager. This instead should be the turning point where you start exploring other options. Learn what you should be looking for at your next job, the red flags you now are aware of and ask questions during your interview. 

For those asking if anyone I knew/taught actually left the room. Yes. Not always just because that statement but because some people can see through corporate propaganda from a mile away and making minimum wage isn’t worth joining a company with a “client is god. You’re a number” mentality.

I quit my job as a Training Specialist because I was tired of lying to desperate people who NEEDED that paycheck. They show up knowing what they’re in for initially and then some guy making $45,000 tells a bunch of people making $30,000 his life is perfect all thanks to Sykes. I’ve seen that practice at other jobs and it’s all the same. 

I realized my worth, looked for a job that best for my career and salary goals and went for it. I’m now a project manager for a large payroll company and I fucking love it. But If someone hadn’t given me the same tip I posted here, I’d probably still be at Sykes. 

In the end. Know what you and your position is worth. Don’t get comfortable at a job you hate if it’s not making you financially stable. Be smart and plan ahead.

Edit 2: People still reading this as “quit your job now” when that’s not the point of this post. However, those of you thinking that would definitely make great employees at Sykes.

Edit 3: A few people have mentioned various Sykes locations around the world in the comments wondering if it’s the one I worked at. Mine was in Central Florida but goes to show they’re all the same. 

Also, a few have posted that this reads as if I’ve never struggled before and could afford to just leave a job without worry. First, please refer to my second edit. Second, without going into to much detail I spent a good portion of my life homeless and working various minimum wage jobs to make ends meet. I didn’t get my first car til I was 22 and only really became financially stable within the last 2 years. I was able to do this BECAUSE I recognized I was worth more than my current job at the time would ever pay me and ventured out of my “safe space” and it worked out. 

Once again the entire point of this post is don’t settle for a job where your value isn’t appreciated. There are other jobs and other companies where you can grow and develop a potential career that you may end up loving. Be smart. Ask questions. Make a Reddit thread where other faceless people can make wide assumptions on your life based off one post. In the end maybe you’ll discover something or help someone else on their journey.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/jef0h2/
author:Id_punch_a_ghost
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:21171
numComments:889
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True