title:
LPT: Talk About yous Salary with coworkers. Is not a Secret. It helps them and you to get better wages (businesses use secrecy to keep wages lower than their own acceptable wages). And it Transparents your workplace remunerations Policy to the only ones that benefit of knowing them.

content:
It doesn't matter if you do it on the down low, or openly. But do it, encourage your coworkers to do it and do it yourself. In that way if your talents or hard work is not paid enough, you´'ll know. 

Also opens the possibility to compare wages between workplaces, and shows different types of benefits other than money you could aspire to. Like Vacations, days off, help, or side projects to help your career.

We like to think that wages have more to do with "how we fight for our salary and the worth of our work". But in reality those abnormalities are a miniscule part of the actual differences in wages.

Wages normally are different in same levels mostly because of the stagnant reality and secrecy in them, and that, in my sector at least, becomes around a 20% to 30% of extra revenue not shared with workers that goes directly to shareholders and bonuses to the management.

So do yourself a favour, and talk about how much you earn with as much people you can, so you check other realities, make better informed working decisions for your future and make better wages in general.

Source: A little over 2 years ago saw and passed to a similar to Data Studio all regional wage sheets for Latin America and Miami for 3 mayor advertising agencies and media companies (around 5k direct and indirect workers in regional associated agencies), and did again all the statistical work for the regional Branch CFO to show to the shareholders and big bosses in the north. 

1-.PS. Peru and Colombia were the ones with the most embarrassing statistical differences in their agencies, with as much as 50% lower the acceptable wage for a determined position in those countries, and just 2 persons earning over the recommended wage. Argentina and Brazil were the lowest around a 15% lower, but with that it came a high rotation and a known local "anti overwork" (in timesheets) work environment in comparison.

2-.PS. If you are not comfortable sharing your earning information with your coworkers then by all means please share them in anonymous posts in places like GLASSDOOR, where that information can help other ones like yourself later.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/jgzwr3/
author:JuanChaleco
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:3199
numComments:366
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True