title:
LPT: Learn to be comfortable with uncertainty as early in life as you can. As people age, they typically become far less certain. But if they have never learned to deal with this uncertainty (assuming things are simpler to understand than they really are), this leads to mental health issues

content:
Many people grow up with a simplified view of the world: trust authorities; people are inherently good; be nice to others and they will be nice to you; work hard and you can succeed; people can be categorized as either good or evil. All these things are partially true and beneficial, but many of you already know that the world is not that simple.

As children, we need certainty and simplicity in order to make sense of the world. But as we normally mature, we discover that a simple and *very certain* view of the world is all too shallow to explain our experiences. Authorities may abuse their power, many people despise goodness; just because you work hard does not mean you will be successful; people are *both* good *and* evil.

There are many (either because their parents coddled them, or at the opposite end, neglected/abused them) that have seen their development arrested. They perceive the world in an almost childlike state, even as older adults. Such people often see the world simply, and as a result, have a very narrow view of how people and the world operate. 

But life is uncertain, and when such people, armed with a very certain and definitive view of the world, come across a problem they cannot resolve, either they grow and mature, or causes tremendous mental discord. 

If for instance, you never come to deep and vulnerable terms with the fact that you will one day die, when you reach the end of your life, it becomes more terrifying than anything else you can imagine. Alternately, if you have dealt with the uncertainty of human life, you will meet your end at peace with the world.

The only way to do this is to not be so certain about what you believe. This in itself is a scary place for your mind to be; but I assure you, you will be far more prepared for the many difficulties you will face in life, much moreso than if you ignore it.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/jnn6va/
author:gomi-panda
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1526
numComments:55
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True