title:
YSK Cleaning Tips/Tricks For Your Home

content:
YSK some cleaning tips/tricks for your home that I’ve picked up being a part of multiple cleaning businesses (including healthcare) and owning one of my own.

Why YSK: To keep yourself and your family healthy.

1. Always clean top to bottom, left to right. WYSK: Gravity will move dust and particles down. High dust, general cleaning, low dust, vacuum, mop.

2. Place a cup of water in the microwave for a minute before cleaning. The water will help get the grime off, making it easier to wipe.

3. Set clean items on clean surfaces and dirty items on dirty surfaces to combat the spread of germs.

4. Use a toothbrush for hard to reach areas. Preferably, use a *different* toothbrush to clean the toilet and toilet brackets.

5. Microfiber towels and *actual* paper towels get rid of swipe marks on mirrors and glass. Fold the towel and use one side for a wet side and one for a dry side. (I use this technique for general cleaning too.)

6. Air compressor or a Can Of Air help blow out speakers, vents, keyboards, electronics, even vents for your vehicle. Be careful.

7. (This post inspired by a previous post) Clean out your vacuum filter regularly. Rinse filter with water, apply a small amount of air freshener or carpet freshener and let dry *completely.* Take scissors and cut all hair from vacuum brush down below. If removable, clean the inside from the brush to reduce build up. Most vacuums come with several removable parts. Clean all parts, besides the motor or anywhere around it unless covered, and let all parts dry thoroughly before placing back together and using. A wire hanger will help you dislodge any build up in hoses or hard to reach places. 

8. Cleaning a toilet: Spray every inch thoroughly, including the floor around it, behind it, and in the bowl. Use a toothbrush to clean brackets, screw covers, around the base and back of the toilet. Take your (microfiber) towel and fold it into quadrants. Use one side to wipe top to bottom thoroughly, including the floor and the outside of the bowl. Use a bowl brush to clean the inside. Flip the towel to a dry side and dry accordingly. Use another clean towel if necessary. Flush bowl.

9. With your cleaned-out vacuum, vacuum floors. If needed, mop starting from the farthest corner of the room/house to the door/entrance.


There are smaller tips and tricks which would drastically change this post to a longer one. If anyone would like me to go into detail or if you have any questions/rebuttals, let me know.

Hope this helps someone.

Edit: I’m adding more:


10. Most faucet heads have parts you can unscrew and detach to clean. A clean toothbrush helps clean build up around nozzles and dials and knobs.

11. The best scour cleaner I have ever used (for ovens and stove tops) is Scour Off, which is a pink bubblegum paste. It’s not sold in The States anymore last time I checked.

12. Soak stove top grill if removable. Be cautious of scratching. If it is a flat stove top, a razor blade will help take hard gunk off. Make sure it is a FLAT surface or else scratching will ensue. (Alternatively, you can use a razor blade on glass and mirrors too. Just make sure the area you are scraping is wet.)

13 There’s no easy way to clean horizontal blinds that I’ve found. I’ve even stuck some in a bathtub full of cleaner when it really needed it, and it helped some.

&gt;Take the blinds off the window, lower the blinds to full length and pull the string so that each piece is laying flat (closed). Place the blinds on a flat surface. This way you can wipe back and forth along multiple slats of blinds instead of doing one at a time. 

u/tlhiebs

14. Just like a vacuum filter, anything with a filter should be able to be cleaned unless otherwise stated. It will prolong the device.

15. On stainless steel, ALWAYS wipe with the grain.

16. Always mop with the grain of wood too. Try not to use too much water on real wood for obvious reasons.

17. Nail polish remover will remove most adhesive. Be careful on what you’re applying it to as acetone has destroying properties.

18. A Magic Eraser takes off small marks on walls and trim around the house.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/jqoim9/
author:vxsts
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:1903
numComments:154
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True