title:
YSK - Many people don’t realize that like love languages, there are apology languages for people too. And it’s important to understand the apology language of the ones around you to be able to effectively apologize when you’re in the wrong.

content:
Why YSK: Knowing the apology language of your loved ones is very crucial. For instance, if your partner needs to hear an ‘I’m sorry’, giving them apology gifts will not work, and will cause rifts in your relationship.

Apology languages (from Gary Chapman and Jennifer Thompson)   

1.Expressing regret : Verbalize your sorry, they need to hear from you that you understand that you wronged them, and that you feel bad and regret it. They want you to acknowledge that you’ve hurt them emotionally.  

2.Accepting responsibility : drop the excuses. Own up to what you did. Don’t try to justify what you did, instead take responsibility and learn to be accountable for you hurting Someone else.  

3.Making restitution : This is a more action oriented approach, where they know you’re making solid effort to not repeat your mistakes.  

4.Genuinely repenting : this is where you can maybe explain why you did what you did, however it’s not a place to make excuses, instead they need to know that are willing to do whatever it takes to fix everything   

5.Requesting forgiveness : this is very important step to most people, to ask their forgiveness and wait for it. It does not make you entitled to their forgiveness. Oftentimes people are unable to get over something without this step of closure, where you ask for and they give you closure.   

 Apologizing comes from emotional maturity and being able to be accountable for your actions, and how they affect other people. Being able to understand when you hurt another person and being able to apologize and do better is crucial.

EDIT : Do add what other kind of apology you would appreciate. And what kind of apology you know some of your loved ones need.
So that we can all learn from each and other and become better people :)

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/js5269/
author:whatislife1001
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:37084
numComments:640
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True