title:
LPT: Instead of letting anxious thoughts go on and on with endless what-ifs, stop the first one with a 'If X happens, I will do Y to solve it.' It can help significantly to stop you from spiralling.

content:
Basically, at the very least this helps stop the thread from continuing, and at the best it can help you realise if something you're thinking is not practical or likely and make you stop spiralling about it, or make you feel better once you have some kind of productive solution in hand (obviously you cannot make one for everything)
For example, instead of thinking 'I'm worried because I'm sick, and I won't be able to focus in that very important class tomorrow, and then I will fall behind, etc etc' think like 'If I am unable to focus in the lecture tomorrow I will ask X for the notes and go over them when I feel better' to stop it right there. I find it very helpful in making you feel in control and getting your bearings, instead of going off on a tangent and getting even more anxious in the process. 


(Note that I am NOT a therapist. If you're having serious issues please try to get professional help. This is just a little tip from my own experience) 

Edit: thank you so much to whoever gave the award(s) !I'm so glad you found it helpful! :)

Edit 2: Guys, I just want to say that I did not state that this will work for every single situation and every single person. It works great for me, and from the comments I see that it works great for many other people and it may work for someone else who sees this and therefore be a good thing for them- so before taking issue you may want to realise that I'm just a person sharing something that impacts them positively, hoping that it may impact someone else positively too, and calling me dumb or an asshole really isn't doing anything productive, but tbh carry on if you want to because any of the comments that say this was helpful or that it may be helpful more than make up for you.

Edit 3: if y'all comment without reading the above edit your comment is unproductive and I won't be explaining again what is already there. Also for the ones who think I don't understand these thoughts- I certainly do a heck lot more than y'all who think that things like anxiety are one size fits all and the one size is your size. You can literally see the many people whom this does work for, so idk maybe think before you comment folks.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/js5tnk/
author:tacosnchilisauce
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:33617
numComments:610
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True