title:
LPT: If you are ever in a dark place, take a piece of paper and a pen and make a gratitude list-even though it seems difficult.

content:
In your lowest of places, maybe you’ve lost your job, or your marriage is crumbling, or something smaller, and you feel your life is going wrong in every possible way, make a list of your good things. This works especially well for depression and anxiety. 
It does not minimize your struggles but it is a really nifty mindfulness technique, forcing you to think super hard about the little things that you might otherwise overlook.

For example, my gratitude list, as of late:
1. I went into an office supply store and could smell that really good paper smell.
2. I finished that crossword puzzle that took me forever.
3. When I drove to the store today, there wasn’t much traffic.
4. The hot water in my house is functioning well, I took a nice hot shower.
5. One of my closest girlfriends texted me today and asked how I was, I have a good friend who cares about me.
6. I was invited to an acquaintances house house for thanksgiving this year since my college won’t allow me to go home to my family.
7. It was warmer today, and I was watching the dust dance on the sunbeam.

And so on.
It can be the smallest, most minimal thing. But when you have to think about all your good things when you’re in a spiral, it forces you to be present and focus on the good things in front of you, no matter how small they are compared to what you are struggling with.
Be present, and take a moment to think about your good things.

EDIT: I love hearing the things you guys are putting on your lists! However I am regretting the way I phrased the title as it’s been subject to one too many dad jokes in the comments...

EDIT EDIT: this is not a substitute for therapy. This is a mindfulness exercise, not intended to cause more distress. If you find that this causes you any emotional distress, don’t do it. We want mindfulness, not intrusive thoughts about whether or not you were a grateful person, or whether or not you’re a good person. So, if this doesn’t help you, don’t use it.

EDIT EDIT EDIT: please don’t let this post become about toxic positivity. As somebody who has been suicidal, and as somebody who has suffered from substantial mental and psychological disorders, (bipolar) I understand that when you are clinically depressed and suicidal it’s extremely hard to make a list like this. I understand not wanting to get better. This was not really intended to be a substitute for therapy, but a suggestion. Gratitude journaling, more than anything, is a mindfulness exercise meant to teach people how to be present. That being said, thank you much for all of the support and positive comments, I’m so grateful that it was able to help somebody.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/jz9jr4/
author:mazelltovcocktail
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:4714
numComments:146
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True