title:
LPT: Cats will “tell” you if they are uncomfortable with something you are doing.

content:
Cats will commonly warn people if they are doing something they do not like.

If you are holding a cat, and they start squirming or trying to get away, put them down immediately. I have one cat that likes to be held, but when she’s had enough, she squirms, and I put her down. And she trusts me completely.

Some cats never like to be held, like my male cat, and that’s okay too. I saw an episode of My Cat from Hell once, where this guy was so upset because every time he held his cat, he got bit. And Jackson Galaxy said something like, “Just don’t hold the cat then!” It’s that simple.

If you are rubbing a cat’s belly, and they start kicking, stop rubbing it. Cat’s bellies can easily be overstimulated, and while they may like rubs for a few minutes, it may get to be too much. And they will warn you. Sometimes with something little like a mini kick. I had a friend that came over that got nipped once after he ignored my cat’s warnings. He wasn’t a cat person and did not know to stop.

Also, some cats may not like belly rubs ever, and others may want them for hours. Every cat is different. They will let you know if they are happy or not. 

“Listening” to your cat will allow the cat to trust you to respect them in the future.

There are also other tells that a cat is not happy. Like dilated pupils. There is a video I keep seeing on Reddit, that has thousands of upvotes, of a black cat getting jiggled upside down on a person’s belly. The cat’s eyes are huge, and yes, she looks cute, but you can tell she is really unhappy. Honestly, every time I see it, I think the owner is going to get bit any second. Don’t do that. Pay attention to the cat’s overall body language. 

Feel free to add your own cat or dog tells. We want to respect our animals, and have them feel safe and trust us.

Edit: Just want to say thanks for the awards, and for so many great comments. Tons of helpful info for understanding both cat and dog body language and behavior. Even adorable pet pics too! I appreciate you all. &lt;3

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/jzejnj/
author:mysweetvulture
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:8611
numComments:580
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True