title:
LPT: I changed my entire life in a year by doing small 30 day challenges.

content:
A year ago: I (28F) was a drunk, drowning in credit card debt, never worked out, deeply depressed, slept in until 11 am every day, etc. And I had a number of other issues not worth mentioning.

Fast-forward a year later (I'm now 29F): I wake up at 5:00 a.m. every day without an alarm, I run 30-40 miles a week and am training for a marathon, stopped drinking, off antidepressants, nearly cc debt-free, and my relationships are better than ever. I am grateful, I volunteer, my health issues have melted away, and I am at true inner peace.

I am not saying this to showoff (using Reddit since it's anonymous!), but rather to hopefully inspire at least one person. I have nothing to sell, I just want someone to feel less alone. My entire life I've had such bad habits and believed in all the negative narratives I said about myself and what others said about me. But they're not true at all. Never were! I just needed the tools to get positive habits in place.

**My formula to finally change my life was 1:30:12. Pick 1 small habit you want in your life, do it for 30 days, repeat for 12 months. If you do this, I promise you'll finally make your positive habits stick, no matter how lazy you are.**

I started out extremely small. Here are my actual first 30 day challenges:

* *Put on running clothes first thing in the morning.*
* *Drink a full cup of water right when I wake up.*

A lot of time has passed, so my challenges are more significant these days:

* *Don't drink alcohol for 30 days.*
* *Wake up at 4:30 am every day.*
* *Write novel for 2-3 hours every morning.*

Not every challenge I do sticks, but I know I can do anything for 30 days. And I can actually see if one habit works over another. But most of my habits have stuck. Doing these challenges makes you feel like a badass. Like you can do and achieve anything you want... because you absolutely can!

You don't wake up one day happy/successful etc. It really comes down to your habits, one step at a time. For me, doing 30 day challenges completely changed EVERYTHING, because I was taking one goal and doing that consistently for 30 days. Then I would do another goal, then another, etc. When you have one healthy habit it really creates a domino effect.

I hope this resonates with you. And please, if you're feeling lost, depressed, or down, try something for just 30 days. It can be as small as, "Smile in the mirror every morning right when I wake up for 30 days." Take it easy on yourself, and do what you can. After all, life is worth living and enjoying while we can.

**EDIT:**

Thank you for the comments, questions, and concerns!  I do appreciate and will respond to you individually as soon as I can. I wrote this on a whim yesterday thinking it might be able to help someone who is feeling down, so I made a few clarifications. 

First, I want to put a big disclaimer on here. If you have a mental health condition, addiction, or anything of that nature, please seek out professional help. This framework is what worked for me, but it’s not meant to replace a medical professional, medication, or rehab. This won't replace any of that. Medication was necessary for my clinical depression for many years and there’s no shame in that. It saves many lives, including mine, especially when I was dealing with death of a loved one. I made all these decisions with my doctor, including getting off antidepressants. 

Second, 6 figures = $100k, not a million bucks. :) Getting healthy habits helped me improve my life in all areas. The first step in my journey was getting a better job to kickstart this process (before the pandemic so I know this may be harder now), then ask for a raise, and find side hustles. I removed the salary piece because that's not the point of this LPT and I'm not trying to make anyone feel down about their financial situation. I've been there.

Third, I want to make sure people understand this wasn’t easy at all. It was hard. Change is hard, but it’s easier when you break it down into small things, which is why I like 30 day challenges. Like anything in life I had huge setbacks during this transition - it has been a part of the journey. A Reddit post is not enough to share every detail, but a part of positive life change that people don’t talk about is how painful it is because you finally face your fears and traumas. So while I am so lucky to be where I am now, there were some really dark times along the way. There will be challenges to face if you take this path. But who isn’t up for a challenge? It makes life interesting. :)

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/k0fm0a/
author:[deleted]
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:10492
numComments:987
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True