title:
LPT: If you ever find yourself in an uncomfortable situation, ask a stranger to help you.

content:
Edit: So glad that this can be useful to some of you. Westfield is a chain of shopping centres in the UK, AU, &amp; US. In the moment of panic, I went to the bathroom, I realise too it probably wasn’t the best space to go.

I was at Westfield pretty late writing my thesis paper \~23:00, and after I got up to leave, I noticed the only other guy in the area leave as well. Typically I'm the only left because I stay back past dinner and had thought he would naturally just leave when all the restaurants closed (Westfield closed at midnight, and all shops were closed.) I got some creepy vibes from him so I walked some loops from L3 to L1 and he was still following me. I went to the bathroom to calm myself, spent about 20mins there and called an uber (normally I walk home because it's pretty safe at night, but I felt if I left the centre where there were no cameras it would be safer to catch a ride). When I came out, I thought I must've spent long enough in there, and he had left but he was sitting on a bench obscured by the elevators ahead. I walked past him as discreetly as possible, towards the parking lot but he got up and followed me too. So I went back round to the supermarket, the only place I knew would still be open and walked around aimlessly until I saw a couple walk in for some late-night grocery shopping. I was afraid to inconvenience them but ended up asking if they could accompany me whilst I waited. I explained I'd been followed and didn't feel safe, and if they could walk with me to the car park where my uber would arrive. They agreed, and once it came, I thanked them and yeeted out of there.

If I had walked home alone maybe something bad could have happened to me, maybe not. All I know is that I didn't feel safe. I don't know who needs to hear this but don't let politeness or fear of inconveniencing someone - it could be stranger, adult, or friend, to stop you from seeking help.

Edit 2: Thank you for your awards, advice and sharing your stories, I’m really overwhelmed how many of you have found this useful. Of course, equally amazed and grateful to know how many of you wouldn’t hesitate to help someone out.

Addressing some comments: Some have mentioned they've encountered similar situations and received no help from the person they asked, I understand the embarrassment that may be felt, but it's alright to ask another person. You know you are more likely to be in danger than you are a danger to others.

Not American, so I wouldn't have protective equipment as it's not legal for the general public to carry them; I didn’t confront them because I didn’t know how they would react and could possibly incite them to harm me; no crime happened so I didn’t think of calling the police, but now I know if the police are willing to escort, it’s valid to be escorted. Sincerely, thank you for all your suggestions.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/k6k2qg/
author:solyana116
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:48619
numComments:1616
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True