title:
LPT: When you're picking someone up from the airport, bring a snack for them. They likely haven't eaten in hours and will appreciate it.

content:
ETA: Thank you, kind strangers, for all the awards! I posted this right before picking my sister up from the airport and packing her a slice of homemade cheesecake. She really appreciated it, as she was coming from across the country and wanted to keep her mask on until she left every public space.

To those asking why you'd be hungry after a flight, in the U.S., you don't get food on domestic flights, unless you want to purchase the world's most expensive cup of instant noodles or something similar, and that would require you to remove your mask to eat it, of course.  Between the flight time, airport wait time, and time to get to the airport, it could easily be eight hours since they last had a proper meal, even with a direct flight.

To those that are hostile towards the idea that you might consider doing an additional nice thing for someone on top of an initial nice thing: You don't have to do it, and the person isn't obligated to eat it. Sometimes it just makes me feel good to do nice things for people I care about to make them happy, especially when they've had a tough day/week/year. And aren't most people having a tough year?

Edit #2: I love all the comments from people remembering times they appreciated unexpectedly having a snack upon being picked up from the airport!

Also, despite the first edit, I still woke up to hundreds of hateful comments. To those, I add: I hope you someday experience the feeling of being excited to pick up someone you love from the airport. I hope you someday feel joy yourself when you make someone else feel happy and loved and cared for with a small gesture rather than being filled with scorn and disdain for them. It's amazing!

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/k6ukqe/
author:beingserial
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:62554
numComments:1840
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True