title:
YSK that acne can be caused by not having enough oil on your face. Acne treatments can actually worsen acne in individuals with dry skin.

content:
Why YSK: The skin care industry as well as some Dermatologists may push the idea that the best treatment against acne and clogged pores is reducing oil from your skin. While this is helpful for people with oily skin, sufferers of acne with a tendency for dry skin may be lacking the natural oil barrier needed to hydrate skin at the top level. 

Without adequate oil, skin can get so dry that layers of dead skin cells can clog pores and cause cystic acne. Acne creams, toners, and cleansers can further dry out the skin.

I generally use jojoba oil on my face 1-3 times a week, and wipe off the excess. I'm not a dermatologist, but it's my understanding that jojoba oil is close to the viscosity of human skin oil, and thus, can cause acne if used by people with oily skin. But in my experience, all I've ever gotten is a whitehead or two when I've put on too much, which is much better than having cystic acne.

Once I've conditioned my face properly with jojoba oil, I can then use oil-free moisturizers without feeling a burning sensation or making my whole face red.

Here's some more information:
https://www.healthline.com/health/beauty-skin-care/jojoba-oil-for-face#antibacterial

Edit: wow this really exploded more than I thought it would! 

My skincare routine is generally just washing and rinsing my face with water and my hands, patting dry, applying jojoba oil when I feel dry skin come on every 1-3 days. Then I wipe off excess with a tissue or a microfiber towel, and I put on Neutrogena Hydroboost. Probably something better out there, but I'm thankful I figured out that jojoba oil worked to cut down my acne.

Also noted in the comments, jojoba oil is not non-comedomic so it can clog pores for some skin types. It just hasn't been my personal experience.

Edit: Everyone's skin is different. This may not be the solution for you. See a dermatologist. The main point of this YSK is to explain that some skin types don't have enough oil. It has only been in my experience through highschool, of dermatologists telling me to reduce the oil on my skin with acne cleansers. It wasn't until my late 20s that I was so fed up with my cystic acne that I decided to try what sounded absolutely counter to what I believed. You might need to repair your moisture barrier.

Edit: Typo fix

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/k6yl7c/
author:SynthwaveVinyl
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:17003
numComments:426
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True