title:
LPT If you are forced to stay in your job that mistreats you, bullies you, or just outright abuses you and you cannot leave here are some things you can do to help yourself. It helped me survive 4 years in a abusive hostile work environment. You don't have to feel stuck you can make it better.

content:
Here is some advice for folks dealing with a hostile or toxic work environment. I know times are hard with COVID and some of you may feel you are stuck. This advice is to help you cope until you can find another job and you SHOULD be looking and you SHOULD be planning a exit strategy.

If you are in a hostile or toxic work environment I assume HR already knows this and is complicit. So IGNORE HR I see people saying go to HR this is a bad idea HR is there to protect the company. They will attempt to gaslight you and make you seem like the one with the problem ie: "why aren't you getting along with our awesome team?!". Say a abusive manager has been there 10+ yrs. If they have been their that long HR/uppers know they don't care! They won't change, start looking elsewhere!

From now on no verbal conversations unless they are work related. EMAIL ONLY and PRINT COPIES!!! If they talk to you or ambush you stay calm be professional and write a email later detailing the conversation bullet point by bullet point.

Keep a work journal documenting your feelings and interactions with them. The good and the bad, even days when nothing of note happened. This will help you see their and your own patterns and give you a more constructive way to deal with it as opposed to thinking about it all day.

Build a support network. Start a Hobby! Go out with friends and family. Try to hang out with people who enjoy your company. Build relationships outside your team/workplace (but do not get distracted or in trouble). This will set you up for a lateral move if possible or they could help you find a new job or with a school program. In other words don't contract your world and shrivel away expand it to the point were the rumors and lies can't touch you.

To be clear, not all people are terrible, I am saying this if you decide to keep staying at your job. Being exposed to that 8 hrs a day 7 days a week will warp your reality and jade even the most optimistic person. There are some great people out their who do not behave this way one just has to find them. 

Don't let them intimidate you from doing your job. You know what you are doing you got it! 

Best of luck! 

Edit: Wow just wanted to say thank you for the awards.

I wish everyone the best in whatever they are doing remember that someone cares about you and recognizes your contribution.

Edit#2: Wow guys thank you for the gold it is my first and I am very appreciative. I hope you and your families are well and you are taking care of one another.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/k7ikyr/
author:CriticCriticaltheory
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:24266
numComments:830
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True