title:
LPT: If a close friend hasn't reached out to you in a while, take the leap and reach out to them. You are equally responsible for not reaching out to one another, and you do not know their side of the story. Reaching out can really help rebuild the relationship.

content:
I've been on both sides of this situation. I saw a heavily upvoted post here about a month ago about how you shouldn't feel bad if you haven't reached out to a friend in a while bc that means they also haven't reached out to you. That's awful advice and fast track to a life with no friends. Swallow your pride and reach out to friends who you've drifted apart from. It's a much better feeling than not reaching out to someone you want to because they haven't made the first move. 

Side note, you probably don't know why they haven't reached out. They may be depressed, or dealing with another issue. Consider that factor in these situations.

Edit: Glad people have found this advice helpful! For context, I recently rekindled a relationship with my childhood best friend who I had not spoken to in a year for one reason or another. It's been fantastic for my mental well being and I felt it would be helpful to share this advice because it is something I struggled with for a while. 

To answer some of the concerns, firstly, I should clarify my criticism of the LPT I'm referring to. You shouldn't feel bad in these situations, but my criticism is that the post made it seem like you should not be proactive in fixing any relationship. If I listened to that advice, I would not have rekindled my relationship with my best friend (or several others I've had). In regards to a relationships that you've both just grown out of or where you are tired of giving more than you get from the person (I am normally that person, like many people in the comments here), I still stand by reaching out. It may not rekindle the relationship, but that doesn't always have to be the purpose. It can help give you closure with that person, and that is important. Point is, if you have a nagging feeling or desire to reach out to a person, I think it's best to do it.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/k9ltax/
author:JiveTurkey688
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:9554
numComments:234
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True