title:
LPT: if you call a suicide hotline and get put on hold, it’s not that we don’t care about you! We also don’t read off of scripts. Other misconceptions below.

content:
I have worked at a suicide hotline for about 2 years now and I have found that there are many misconceptions about suicide and crisis hotline workers and volunteers.  I can’t speak for every organization, but I hope that I can address a few of the general concerns that I see now so that you feel more comfortable calling.

1.  “Why did I get put in a queue? Do they not care that I’m about to kill/hurt myself?”  We absolutely DO CARE! Please, please stay on the line.  At my organization, when you call you first talk to a “crisis screener” who’s job it is to take down whatever information you want to give them and then send you to one of two queues.  One queue is for people actively wanting to commit suicide and the other is for people in general crisis but not suicidal.  This is where some people get stuck on hold for a while because we are actively taking calls from the queue as they come in.  Every night is different and every shift is different. Sometimes I’ll get 3 calls in 4 hours and I can really take my time with each person.  Other times, we have 10 people waiting in the queue but I still want to give each person their respective time to de-escalate.  We can also see if someone has dropped from the queue and it always makes me sad to see that someone hung up.  I want to talk to you. We all want to help.

2. “Workers just talk from a script so there’s no point in calling”.  This is absolutely not true.  When you talk to me, I’m given a blank notepad and that’s it.  Through extensive training, we learn about ways to help you de-escalate your thoughts, open up and feel comfortable, and help you specifically identify what you are feeling in a crisis moment.  Our onboarding teachers really focused on how every caller is different and every situation is case-dependent. I would never boil down your experiences to a script. 

3. “I don’t want to call again tonight because I’ve already called once and I’m going to bother them”.  Please feel comfortable calling as many times as you need if you are in active crisis.  Most likely you won’t even be talking to the same phone worker as everyone goes into the same queue.  I would say about 50% of my calls are people who I regularly hear from every day/week - they say their name or I recognize their voices.  20% are likely callers who have already called once in the night and need to talk again.  This is perfectly fine and I’m happy to explore what worked for you last time you called and what can work again this time.

4. “They’re going to hang up on me”.  We are not allowed to hang up on anyone (and I wouldn’t want to) unless they are being abusive to us or won’t let us speak.  We get a surprising amount of prank calls and people who call just to scream at us.  THAT BEING SAID - I have accidentally hung up on people before.  I feel absolutely horrible when this happens but I hope that everyone knows that they should call back.  If I am actively talking to you or you are telling a story and we get disconnected, know that I didn’t get bored and hang up. Something definitely happened on the worker’s line.

5. “I don’t want to call because they will record what I’m saying and it will be used against me later.”  From my knowledge, most privately and gov owned phone lines do not record phone calls.  Some that I am unaware of may have different standards but at least with the ones I’m aware of in my state and National level, we all make it very clear before your call that we are 100% anonymous.  We don’t record conversations or calls - I don’t even think our phones can do that.  Most times I take notes so that I can remember your name and specific hardships that you mention but we have shredders all around the office to discard those after we hang up.  You are also welcomed to not disclose your name if you have something really personal that you feel scared to let out.  If you are ever unsure about what is being recorded, please ask your phone worker and they will tell you what your organization allows. 

6. “My problems are too big for them to handle”.  We have heard everything, trust me.  Everything from teens wanting to shoot up their schools to people who are having affairs to people calling us so that they can masterbate.  Nothing you say will surprise us or be too much for us to talk you through.  

I’m happy to answer any more questions in the comments if you have additional things that you are curious or unsure about.  I greatly recommend that you print out your local crisis line’s number and hang it on your fridge and enter it to your phone.  You have no idea how many calls we get from children/teens who got our number from their parents/friend’s parents either directly or indirectly.

If you are looking to find a hotline in your country, please refer to this link: https://www.suicidestop.com/call_a_hotline.html.  I recommend if you are in the United States that you look up a free, 24 hour hotline in your city or state (rather than the National hotline) as they will be more likely to have a smaller queue and can also give you strong resources within your zip code or area.  You can save this number for if you are having an emergency.  Never hesitate to call the National hotline either, though which can be found at that link.

Please call us.  We are ready and eager to help.

———————

Edit:  concerning mandated reporting to 911 because many people are asking about it, every organization is different.  For mine, we are mandated reporters in cases where people are in active suicide or planning to hurt someone else.  We don’t call the police but we do call 911 and we have no control over what they decide is best in that situation (whether they should get cops involved or just emergency services.). However people saying that they feel suicidal is far from being in active suicide.  Even people that have access to suicidal methods, like if someone has a gun or pills in their home, we will not call unless they are actively trying to use them to kill themselves.  De-escalation is our main priority.

That being said, if we do need to call the 911, my call center and certain others have no way of knowing where the caller is since we are a 100% anonymous call center.  Some organizations may have trackers or can give your number away but we either have to convince people to call 911 themselves so that their location can be shared or we have to talk it out of them.

For example, I got a call one time from a lady who had just taken a bunch of sleeping pills and just wanted someone talk to while she died.  Through about 20 minutes of conversation I was able to get her to tell me where she was located and so emergency services were sent.  This is pretty rare and it only is required maybe once every couple of months.  Many people are sharing stories of themselves getting hurt by police and thrown into mental wards. I know that this is common and this is why my organization really doesn’t call 911 much.  Again, I cannot control if the 911 operator decides if the police should be involve or not and if this does happen if you get taken to a psych evaluation at a hospital.  My job in that moment is to save your life and remember, it’s not a choice - I’m a mandated reporter to 911 which means I’m required to call.  I try HARD AS HELL to prevent this from happening though but some situations are dire.  I really recommend asking whatever hotline you are calling what their mandated reporting requirements are or looking on their website under terms and conditions where it is laid out in writing.  

Most times if people are in very bad mental crisis that we cannot completely de escalate in a 30 min call, we can offer to send a mobile crisis team to your location. This involves sending two trained mental health professionals to an address that you give us and consent to them coming out to.  This is fairly common and probably happens around once every two hours on the line but it still not the most preferred conclusion.  We work very hard to help you on that phone anonymously and quickly.  I wouldn’t want anyone to be turned away from getting help because they’re scared about what me as a phone worker is going to do.

If you are ever concerned about what is reported, being recorded, etc... please ask your phone worker.  We are legally required to be transparent to you.  Thank you!


———————

Edit #2:  here are some additional answers to questions I’ve been getting in the comments:

1.  “Should I still call the line if I am just depressed and not suicidal?”  There are two different types of lines that I wish were spread around more clearly.  One is a suicide-only hotline.  These workers will only answer and respond to people who are actively suicidal or having suicide ideation right now.  Many of the negative stories in the comments have people saying that they were hung up on because they weren’t “that depressed”.  I can’t diminish your experience and I’m sorry that it happened.  In the future, if you know that you are not actively suicidal but still need someone to call, call a “crisis hotline”.  These are also trained volunteers and workers who deal with general crises.  Things like if you are depressed, having anxiety, want to vent, need to cry, need to get resources for drug addiction or domestic abuse etc... this is the place to call.  It’s also okay if you call the crisis line and later end up talking about suicidal thoughts, it happens more than you know.

2. “How do I get a job as a phone worker or volunteer?”  The way I did it was that I went on my local hotline’s page by searching ones near me on google.  There was a tab that said volunteer and I filled out my email and a small application on there.  Within a week, a supervisor reached out to me and asked me to fill out more information involving sending them my resume, filling out a 4 page document on why I want to work there, and undergoing a background check.  Another week or so later, I got instructions on how to join an orientation where they told me more about the work and we could choose if we were still interested or not.  After a year of being a volunteer, I applied to a bachelors-level paid position at my hotline in which I oversee other volunteers if they have questions or concerns about calls.  My organization has bachelors and masters level positions.  I got my B.S. in physiology.

3. I want to say thank you to everyone who is sharing their bad experiences here as well as their good ones.  It’s important that organizations learn from people’s shitty experiences so that we can all get better as a whole.  I’ve been suicidal and have attempted in my lifetime.  I’ve called a suicide hotline and had a bad experience where I felt like I was wasting their time. I also called a couple times after that and was connected to the best people I have ever had the experience talking to.  They saved my life.  I applied to help because I want to make sure that everyone has a good, or atleast fair, experience when they are speaking to me as a phone worker.  

There are a couple of things that I recommend if you want to get the best chance at having good experience calling a phone line.  For one, I’ve said it before and I’ll say it again, National phones lines have longer queues and they are likely rushed as phone workers.  They’re not a bad resource at all but if you are of sound mind, I recommend searching and saving a smaller hotline’s number around your area that deals with suicide or crisis that way you can have them in your phone when you need them.  Next, if you are concerned about if giving away your information will be tracked or reported... ASK.  Always ask so you never feel like you were duped into having the cops called on you or your address taken.  Ask if your call is recorded, ask if your number is recorded, and ask if you can even remain anonymous.  I don’t care what information you give me about yourself, I care about helping you get through tonight.  Many of this information can be found on your hotline’s website under the terms and conditions. Read through these if you don’t want to ask.

—————-

I have taken a break from this account indefinitely.  I don’t know what some of you want from me. I made an informational post based on MY experiences as a phone line worker and told you all of my knowledge on how to have the best chances at a good experience because often people have bad ones.  I’ve called 911 on probably about 5 people in my whole career because they already took active measures to end their life or were planning on ending someone else’s soon.  They also knew that I was going to call and GAVE ME THEIR INFORMATION AND LOCATION because they realized that they needed in-person and immediate help that we cannot give them.  I didn’t “swat them” or “send police to their door for no reason”.  I understand that this may be a rosey organization that I work at but the advice I gave to ask questions, call smaller hotlines, and read the terms and conditions still stand for any hotline you are calling.  Take a look at their website and understand their protocol. 

People have been messaging me that I should kill myself, that they hope I get cancer, that I’m the reason their father/mother died, I’m the reason they got sent a 20,000 dollar medical bill, I’m the reason they were trapped in a mental health facility for 7 months, I’m the reason they got beaten up by cops, etc... How can you say these things to another human being and then complain about how your own mental health was treated?  I’ve been blamed for the actions of a huge line of decision-making people that I don’t even come in contact with at my job.  I’ve been blamed for the actions of people at other organizations who I will never meet or talk to in my life.  I have a history of depression and suicidal ideation as stated in my post, and frankly, the comments attacking me have brought up a lot of that which is why I need to go.  I’m not upset that people have had bad experiences and are sharing them, that is inevitable and encouraged as I have also had bad experiences and we need to learn from them. I’m upset that people are messaging me really horrific things and attacking me.

I still want people to know that there are good organizations out there filled with people who want to help.  I know the comments here seem overwhelmingly negative but, often people who have had good or life saving experiences will not comment.  Not all hotlines are good but I hope, if you need it, you will still try to find one based on my advice above.  I wish I could bring all of you who have had bad experiences to my line and let you listen to the constant stream of people that we help for 8 hours a day, but I can’t and I realize that asking you to trust me after your personal, horrific experiences is too much to ask.  I hope that you all have found a therapist, psychiatrist, support group, or other healthcare professional or service and are working to heal from your mental health issues.  I’m still doing so myself.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/kaj4ff/
author:wheresyourpickle
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:43345
numComments:1366
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True