title:
YSK If you're uncomfortable for no apparent reason, try some of these fixes:

content:
Why YSK: Most people can be comfortable if they figure out what causes their discomfort and deal with it and/or try these methods! I recently discovered that years of frequent discomfort was being caused by nipple chaffing, and bandaids basically cured it right away.

1. Do yoga or stretches before and/or after bed. even 10-20 minutes helps, but the more the better.
2. Take a shower and put on moisturizer right after. Never too hot or too long.  /u/dizzley would add that you should try a range of moisturizers until you find one to suit. People's needs differ. I use a product called Aveeno and my second choice is Aqueous Cream as it's called in the UK.  /u/kikistiel Would like to add to number 2, before you put moisturizer on gently pat a toner on as well. People always forget the toner step but it’s so important! Imagine rubbing lotion on an dry sponge (no toner) vs a wet sponge (toner). It absorbs into the skin so much better and really makes a difference. You can get toners super cheap and I swear it’s like night and day :)
3. If your skin often feels irritated, try buying softer clothing like undershirts and underwear.  /u/stoicsticks said:  If you're not sure if a fabric is going to be scratchy to wear, try rubbing it lightly against the inside of your wrist. The skin there is more sensitive than your hands or fingertips.  
4. If your nipples area often feels uncomfortable it could be due to chaffing. You can put on a bandaid with almond or olive oil.
5. Correct your posture by being mindful of it throughout the day and doing stretches.  *Sleep in a good position with knee and neck support.  If your mattress sucks, biy a mattress topper.
6. Foam roll and do warmups before and after exercising.  Always follow exercise routines to prevent muscle imbalances and to prevent overtraining.
7. Take some deep breaths and relax.  Sometimes tension is held unconsciously, but you can consciously release it.  Relaxing on the exhale works very well for relaxing.
8. Take care of your bodies basic needs which definitely includes exercise.

Source:  [https://www.healthline.com/nutrition/13-benefits-of-yoga](https://www.healthline.com/nutrition/13-benefits-of-yoga)

Tips added by commenters:
1.  /u/sojayn Check your sensory overload.  Sometimes (for some people) background noise/lights/temperature translates into a physical restlessness or discomfit. Especially when working or focused and forgetting about your physicality. Try nature sounds headphones, adjust lighting and dress for the temperature.
2.  /u/5T6Rf6ut Drink some damn water. You're probably not properly hydrated.
3.  /u/catfurcoat I recommend the Downdog app for yoga but if you want something for free then the FitOn app has some yoga and bedtime routines (as well as a lot of good exercise videos) or Yoga With Adrienne on YT
4.  /u/jarredknowledge Strengthening our posterior chain goes a long way in alleviating issues surrounding static lifestyle and the inevitable posture issues that come with that
5.  /u/skbat As an introvert - get some alone time. Read, watch tv, whatever. Get the house to yourself if possible. When I'm grumpy it's almost always because I need alone time.
6.  /u/dvof meditate.  clear your mind and focus on yourself and surrounding. You'll become aware of tension in parts of the body that you hadn't before. Also try not to think about anything, your mind will probably wander off to something, but try to become aware of it and dissapate the thought. Then again focus on your body, breathing and surrounding again, actively thinking about nothing but the current moment. This basically gives your brain a moment to pause for a second and it really works.
7.  /u/YourLocalAnarch Another really good tip from my occupational physiotherapist and especially if you work from home: Always have your mouse at the same level as your elbow. Doing it so won't force your body more than it should, especially your posture.  If possible have your screen at the same level of your eyes as well!  /u/LadyJig adds:  In reference to sitting at a desk:  A good quality chair is super important. You may here the term "ergonomic" thrown around a lot, but it's actually incredibly important. Chronic pain often arises from poorly fitted but often used equipment, like a desk chair. Ideally, you want your knees to be at a 90deg angle, good back and neck support, and your arms to rest comfortably at a neutral angle. It's also preferable to keep your head straight as much as possible, otherwise you will fatigue your neck.  If you'd like to see how good your desk is, check out this assessment!  Source: me, a Human Factors Engineering student who did a gigantic project on ergonomics
8.  /u/rojm Write down the things that are bothering you and what you will do about it or how you should feel or cope or learn from it. I use the checklist in my phone’s notes app. Negative thoughts have been intruding and they are very irrational and I know this and writing down how I felt finally turned off those thoughts.
9.  /u/Kost_Gefernon Feeling irritated or that you are tensing up or clenching your teeth and can’t seem to stop?  Force yourself to smile, then open your mouth wide to stretch your jaw. Repeat a few times.  Add in some double chins (moving your head back to make a double chin while keeping your head upright), and rub the back of your neck.  Poor head posture can cause a chain reaction of tension that leads to tight jaws and a headache. You don’t know what is causing it, which antagonizes the negative feeling, and the situation feeds itself. You can turn it off by smiling.
10.  /u/LiezLies Left to right rhythmic movements and things that engage symmetrical body movements - things like walking up and down the hall while on a phone call, swimming laps (particularly breaststroke), knitting or crocheting. We see this in animals when they pace up and down.
11.  /u/LiezLies Intuitive movement - quite literally shaking it out. Put a song on, and move your body however feels good, don’t try to dance, just move your body, including shaking movements. We see this in dogs when they shake after a tense situation.
12.  /u/awreathafranklin You might be in actual danger. I'm surprised no one has said this yet. We have been taught to "rationalise" warning signs are bodies are telling us. Assess your surroundings. Is there anyone you are unfamiliar with or who just entered the immediate space? Is that when you became "uncomfortable"? In the event you need to get out, where are you exits? Does anyone know where you are right now? Is there anyone around you that you can trust? Trust your gut, worst case you're wrong and still safe. Uncomfortable can mean so many things. LPT: Become comfortable with your body and learn to listen. (I'm adding that doing slow deep breathing can take you out of fight or flight mode)
13.  /u/magicEightballA_A Food is also important. Eat fruit man. Lots of it. I hate eating vegetables but I love fruit so started eat more of that and lemme tell you, it helps. I have lots more energy throughout the day and it definitely helps. I eat bananas in the morning, some citrus like oranges after lunch and sometimes an odd pear or apple with dinner.
14.  /u/7moonwalker7 Go alone for a walk in a forest or park. Or any nature area. I love going deep into a forest at night, especially in the winter when I can enjoy the stars, northern lights and the snow covered trees.
15.  /u/Stalinwolf Take some magnesium too. 150mg of Magnesium Citrate is my jam.  /u/ispebblespeople DONT supplement minerals at random! Minerals in too high amounts will poison you. The tip should instead be to take a blood test to check your levels and supplement accordingly, or track your diet for a few days in e.g. chronometer and supplement only if you're consistently low balling certain minerals  (I'll add:  make sure you supplement anything your diet is low in, or adding nutrient dense foods with what you're low in of course is better.)
16.  /u/Ill_Age_1853 I used to have trouble sleeping until I started stretching my knees out
17.  /u/shapeshifter83 My discomfort has always come from my lower digestive system. My tips are: smaller portions, keto/low carb (less gas production down there), avoid coffee/dairy/spicy, intake dietary fiber on the regular or take a fiber pill, regular exercise, pants that sit very high and fit right.  Also I'm mildly autistic with the typical autistic tendency to dislike things on my skin while paradoxically also disliking to feel uncovered, sleeping naked underneath a weighted blanket has been great.
18.  /u/steakndbud I'd recommend a theracane over foam rolling. Much more intuitive to use correctly.
19.  /u/Mondonodo I'm gonna be the horndog of the thread when I say this, but maybe try masturbating. Can be a nice stress release.
20.  /u/KeithMyArthe I'd add... listen to any feelings of nagging dread or doubt. 
 I developed sepsis due to a blockage in one kidney. There was no pain, pretty much asymptomatic except for an overwhelming fear that something wasn't right.  The ER doctor told me that if I had slept on it I might not have made it to the hospital. He estimated 10 to 12 hours before it became unlikely they could have dealt with it as effectively as they did.
21.  /u/DopeandDiamonds If you are uncomfortable just ask yourself  "Am I doing OK?"  "Do I feel comfortable?"  "How can I be happy in this moment?"  So much of our internal discomfort comes from simply not checking in on how we are doing mentally. Some people need that outlet of being asked how they are to really take a moment and reflect.  It sounds dumb and simple but sometimes we need to have a mental check in. I have done this and burst into tears without knowing I was holding shit in that I couldn't manage.
22.  /u/marlboroprincess I’m late to this party, but make sure you’re aware of your stimulant intake. Too much caffeine in a day will give me a “bees in my teeth” type feeling. Like my skin is itchy on the inside of my body. I can’t shake and it can trigger a panic episode until i remember that i had a giant coffee or whatever. Have a glass of water, it will help your body metabolize caffeine :)
23.  /u/Sapiencia6 Sometimes you might find yourself irritable and annoyed by every little thing, the natural noises of your environment are suddenly grating, the light just isn't right, etc. Stress and anxiety can cause your sensory input to be overwhelming. Even if you don't feel that you would have any reason to suffer from sensory overload, keep some grounding exercises in your back pocket for when something "feels wrong" but you don't know why.  1.  Focus on a tangible item in your environment. Think of as many adjectives as you can to describe it using each of your senses. What can you say about its visual appearance? What does it smell like, or what do you imagine it smells like? What would it sound like if you used it to make a noise? What does it feel like? What would it taste like? Do this for as many things in your surrounding as you need until you feel relaxed.  2.  Close your eyes and take deep breaths in through your nose and out through your mouth. Count slowly to seven while you inhale, hold for seven, and time your exhale to seven. Then focus on tensing and releasing every muscle in your body, one by one, working down from your head to your toes. You may not realize where your body is holding tension, especially in your face. Tense your forehead, release. Tense your eyes, release. Your nose. Your jaw. Your whole face. Your neck. Your shoulders. Etc. By the time you reach your toes you will have hopefully relaxed your whole body.
24.  /u/glockGotaDick  Also try the Wim Hof method, super relaxing breathing method

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/kf71c9/
author:Snuggly-Muffin
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:19970
numComments:513
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True