title:
LPT: Keeping a job with a company for a long time can be a good path to get promoted to through the ranks, but usually a bad way to maximize pay. This is especially true if you started your career at that place. You'll end up with a nice title, but will likely be underpaid compared to your peers.

content:
If you stay at a company for a long time, you'll have potential to move up the ranks in terms of title (assuming you are doing a good job), but you likely started at a pay rate applicable to the job you stared in. Your pay increases as you get promoted, but it will be smaller compared if you get hired on at a new company with a similar title. You get a lot of experience navigating your company, but you'll be limited because you don't get exposed to other various cultures, challenges, problems, technology, processes, etc.

Having experience at different companies makes you more marketable because you've been exposed to a lot of different challenges giving you much more experience than just coasting at the same place where things probably don't change a whole lot.

Be careful not to job-hop too much though (less than 2-3 years) or you may turn off employers because you'll give the impression you can't be trusted to add much value because your hiring manager/recruiter won't like the idea of expecting to have to train up a new person frequently.

Always look for opportunities outside your current company and you'll likely get bigger raises. If you're chasing a company retirement plan/pension, then that may be a factor and this may not apply. Otherwise, look around at different places and you'll likely find pay will go up much more. Obviously, there are some careers where this may not apply, but for the most part, this holds true (especially in corporate America). You also have to factor in stress level, benefits, and work hours in all of this too. Moving from a cushy job to a super stressful job, may not be worth the extra pay. Money isn't always everything. Try not to feel loyal to a company unless they really deserve it and they pay/value what you're worth and make you happy. 

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/kg41h3/
author:DavidOhMahgerd
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:2431
numComments:123
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True