title:
YSK you’re not alone. There are people who are here for you and want to talk to you if you’re lonely.

content:
Why YSK: With as rough as 2020 has been, especially around the holidays, it can be really tough for many people. Whether it be you’re out of work, missing a loved or lost one, or you just want to talk to someone/anyone, you’re never alone. And you should never be embarrassed if you feel alone. People are here for you. Whether it be Warmlines, MHA, or the Reachout app, there are many free resources that are here for you if you just want to talk. Much love to all this holiday season.

Edit: Just because I’ve never spoken to you or don’t know you, doesn’t mean I won’t be here to talk if you need. My DMs are 100% open as well for anyone that just needs an outlet or connection. A stranger is just a friend you haven’t met yet.

Edit 2: For all of you sending me DM’s, thank you and I truly and sincerely promise I’m trying to respond to as many of them as I can. While this many DMs was completely way out of my expectations, it only shows that maybe more of you are alone than we ever thought you were. I promise I will respond to each and every one of you and please don’t think you’re not important because I haven’t responded yet. I promise to respond to each and every one of them.

Edit 3: I truly am humbled about the amount of people that have reached out to me via DM or comments on this thread. Sadly, I see a common theme that many people I chat with in DMs see themselves as the exception, weirdo, outcast, pathetic, or a burden to everyone else. I promise you are not. As I’ve told all of you in DMs, there are literally 100’s or more people here that want to talk to you. We don’t know you, we don’t care about your past, we don’t care how severe your issue is. There are so many people here that just want to know, help, and talk to you. I PROMISE. Look at all the responses in this thread. We are here to listen. Please reach out to as many people as you need.

Edit 4: after 3+ hours, I was able to finally catch up on all DMs. I’m sorry it took so long to respond to everyone. For those of you I have conversed with, the door remains open and please feel free to reach back out any time for anything. For those that happen to DM me afterwards (it’s 1106 EST), I promise I will reach back out to you as well. If today has taught me anything, there are literally hundreds of people I met today that feel alone. Most importantly, there are even more people in this thread that are also here for you. Just read through the comments. So many people willing to help. Love you all.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/kgjlbn/
author:insanity2brilliance
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:4315
numComments:219
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True