title:
LPT: are you listening to something while wearing headphones? Can you hear it clearly? Turn down your volume a notch. Can you still hear it fine? Turn it down more. Make it a habit. Drowning out noise might be nice for now but Tinnitus is no joke.

content:
I'm a 20 year old female who recently (I think, hard to tell when) developed tinnitus. I never went to concerts, never worked or frequently visited loud places. I've always lived the most boring, quiet life you can imagine. I did like to listen to music though, still do, and I'd turn up the sound while on public transport to fully drown out the noise around me because music just sounds better that way. 

I personally never thought it sounded loud at all, it was barely louder than the noise around me. I never thought it could damage my hearing but lo and behold it did. I now have a constant ringing in my ear and it'll probably never go away again. Please, let me tell you, it's not worth it. I hardly remember any of the times I was just listening to music while on my way to school but I do remember the sleepless nights I now have because my ears won't stop ringing. 

I knew about tinnitus, I thought it was terrifying but never thought it would happen to me because I didn't play drums or went to concerts or clubs or anything like it. But  please, it can happen to you and it sucks. When you listen to something while wearing headphones and you think you can hear it well, please turn down the sound. You will probably still hear it just fine, you just grow used to hearing it really well but it's not worth it. Get used to turning down your sound just a little each time you notice you hear it just fine and save your hearing. You don't know how good you have it till it's gone and when it's gone you'll do anything to have it back again. Silence is a blessing, don't waste it.

Edit: just to clarify, you can still keep listening to music and I'm not telling you to turn it down till you can barely hear it anymore. Just get the volume to where you can hear it fine, but not louder than necessary. We do that far too often because we grow so used to it.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/klywui/
author:Summer-Breeze-Reddit
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:9316
numComments:433
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True