title:
LPT: Beware the "Intern Trap". Don't take a job as a X Intern at a company that doesn't have anyone who can do X.

content:
Interning should be a process of learning a craft while you help to contribute to the overall institutional goals. 

If a company is advertising for an intern position, but doesn't have anyone who does that job, then they are probably just trying to pay someone less for a job that they want someone to be able to do. Traditionally, these are jobs that young people are adept at, but older people may not have the skills to perform. 

For example, they probably need/want a Social Media Manager, not a Social Media Intern, but they want to pay less, hence the title. If you interview for a position like this, ask who at the company you will be learning from. If they don't have someone senior in the role, they may be willing to offer a mentor in other valuable skills - a senior marketing manager, for example. 

Consider negotiating a title that reflects what you will be learning, not just what you will be contributing. This will help you develop your resume and, well, hopefully learn new skills. Also consider negotiating a title change and salary adjustment to reflect that title. "It seems that you don't have anyone at the company in a position to mentor a Social Media Intern and that what you really need is a Social Media Manager. I'm happy to take that role, at the junior level, and prove my worth to the company." 

Really take a look at the learning on offer and what it's worth to you - if they're paying you $20k less a year, then your mentorship better be up to that value. You can save yourself a lot of wasted time and money by avoiding this "Intern Trap".

EDIT: To be clear, some internships are genuine where you trade your work for real on the job learning (and a small paycheque). These should have someone on staff who is responsible to the intern - an actual mentor - or there should be a clear trade of skills/experience for your work and time. These are not the "Intern Traps" I intended to warn about. Nor am I talking about internships or practicums related to an educational course of study.

I'm talking to job seekers looking for a job who might be undervaluing their skills, potentially negotiating with a company that is trying to take advantage of the applicant.  

In Canada, where I'm from, unpaid internships are (now) illegal, though were prevalent early in my career. These privilege people who have enough resources and support to be able to give their time and labour away without financial compensation and disadvantage people who can't afford to work for free because they have bills to pay.

EDIT 2: Thanks for the Helpful awards and the Silver! My first ever and I appreciate it!

EDIT 3: A lot of people are reading this post as anti-internship. It is not intended to be! I am very pro-internship. This is a tip to ask in the interview to determine if what is on offer is, indeed, an internship or if it is a lowball play for your skills and labour. Just know what you are getting into by asking about the mentorship, training, and skills that they plan for you to learn. If they don't have a plan, they *might* be exploitative. If you had a great internship experience, great! Lucky you! And thanks for sharing these experiences. It's great to know some people have made the best of their situations, or, indeed had a good experience with a company that does internships right.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/kobiui/
author:maybeest
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:33986
numComments:579
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True