title:
YSK that if you’re feeling insecure, try being as over confident as you can.

content:
Thank you so much for all the awards but put to money to good use! 

Disclaimer!! I am talking about low self esteem, not curing personality disorders/ mental illnesses! I am aware that these things go hand in hand, but being kind to yourself is a very good thing to do.  

Please be kind to yourself!

Why YSK - Having no self esteem is awful, and most of the time it’s really hard to say/ think nice things about yourself. Being dramatically over confident shifts how you think about yourself without realising because even though you’re not taking yourself seriously, you’re saying good things about yourself. 

• If you’re clumsy, say things like “Such grace! Such excellence! I should be a ballerina!” 

• If you burn your dinner, say things like “I’m the best chef in the world. Gordon Ramsey would fear me” 

• Every single time you look in the mirror, say “oh damn, I’m so cute!” 

• You could say things like “I am strong. I am kind. I can survive anything.”, I just enjoy sarcasm. 

• Force a smile for 30 seconds every day. Seems silly but it actually can improve your mood. 

• Write a list of things that you are grateful for, even if it’s things like “the sky is blue, my dog is cute” etc 


Tell your brain what it needs to hear and what it wants to hear. 
You’ll feel a bit awkward at first but over time, it truly helps. 
My counsellor taught me this a year or so ago and I thought I needed to share it because it helped me drastically. Hope it helps you :)

Edit - basically what I’m saying is fake it until you make it. A fair few people are taking it the wrong way and/ or putting words into my mouth. 

Obviously you’re not going to mean the things you say to yourself at first. Like everything, self acceptance takes time and hard work, but this is a good first step.

It’s a scientific fact that many therapists use to trick yourself into thinking that you are actually worth something until you start to believe it yourself. Maybe I’ve worded it wrong but my point was if you have no self esteem, it helps to try your hardest to say nice things about yourself. 

The reason my examples were so sarcastic is because when I said them, it made me giggle and that also helped me to feel better. You could also Look in the mirror and say “I and Kind, I am strong”. Say what you want to feel. Everyone is different. 

The first step has to come from you, and obviously this alone won’t make you stop being depressed (or having other mental health disorders) but it’s a good first step to start thinking good things about yourself, when you use it in conjunction with things like therapy, antidepressants etc. 



Thank u for coming to my ted talk.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/kpjpps/
author:avocadooooo__
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:4696
numComments:238
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True