title:
LPT: Do not react to anything overwhelmingly the same day it happens. Give yourself a nights sleep and attack it the next day. It chemically allows your brain to process it properly without the flood of emotions and confusion.

content:
Im sorry for assuming people read descriptions and not just titles. Thats literally my fault. The title seems "too sciency" and thats far from what i intended. I was just posting my life pro tip on the very sub. Not a claim to /r/science. My mistake was assuming everyone reads descriptions. I apologize.


**Im learning everything as it has been 5 hours since ive posted and have reached enough replies. [[This is nothing related to death or physical pain or serious life problems .. just your day to day encounters awkward moments arguments the little stuff]].. THIS IS NOT 100% SCIENTIFIC FACT. THIS IS NOT FOR SITUATIONS UNCONTROLLABLE LIKE PHYSICAL PAIN AND MENTAL DIAGNOSIS. This is help for Karen type moments day of stuff. You will not feel better the next day. You will be able to react better the next day is all i'm simply saying. Controllable moments. If you have chest pains or have been mentally diagnosed or are unbearing of what youre going through seek help immediately this is my own personal experience we are all wired differently** - i made the mistake thinking everyone understood what i meant without details even though i had the details below and the title wont let me fit more details i needed more detail.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

As hard as it may seem at the moment.

Tough day at work. Managers being mean for no reason.

Someone bullies you. Calls you names.

Family or friend arguement.

Find a weird lump on you that sets you to panic mode instantly.

Virtually anything in your life that sets you to a state of mental discomfort.. **(not literally dying guys if you are dying go get help immediately).. Im talking about controllable moments.. Not physical pain or mental problems. Like the "karen yelled at me at work" problems.** Do not prey on the thoughts immediately. Do not lash out or panic. As much as you wanna run to your mom and cry, Accept that it has happened. Put your emotions away. And as hard as it is at the moment, move on from it, sleep the night. Tomorrow come back at it with a clear mind and approach the problem. However youd like. But now your mind is in tune properly.

 **As the examples in my post state its for the things that bare no weight immediately .. reading through the comments it is confirmed this has existed and it is called the 24 hour rule. Again .. not physical pain or mental diagnosis problems.. just your day to day encounters**

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/kpuvkv/
author:ImPretendingToCare
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:42838
numComments:572
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True