title:
LPT: To raise your success level in applying for leadership roles, always ask the interviewer: “is there anything about me or my experience that gives you pause?”

content:
Bottom line, if you don’t ask this you won’t know and, if you don’t know, there’s nothing you can do to address any potential issues with your candidacy.

By directly asking this question at the end of your interview (make sure you allow enough time) you give yourself the gift of being able to directly address any potential areas of concern your interviewer may have.  Often, you can completely calm their fears or restore their confidence.

Two real-life examples:

• For a Director level role, I asked this at the end of the interview and was told the person was concerned about my lack of change management experience.  I knew this was a gap going in and was prepared to address their concerns with how I would quickly get in front of this by taking change management courses immediately and get change management certified in my first 30 days.  I got the job!

• For a VP level role, I asked this question at the end of my interview and was told that they were concerned I didn’t really understand the job requirements based on my previous responses.  I was shocked to hear this as I had studied the role in depth.  I was able to quickly address this concern by framing the role responsibilities in my own words and in a manner which showed I clearly understood the job... this allowed me to restore the interviewers confidence and gave us a laugh as we realized it was the question I hadn’t understood earlier when I was asked to explain what the role meant to me.

Give yourself the gift of having a fair chance and don’t worry about putting your interviewer on the spot.  Give yourself a chance to hear any concerns and restore confidence if anything is causing them pause.  It works and shows you can sell yourself.

As an added bonus you will have much less stress worrying about whether or not they thought you were a strong fit... because you had the courage to ask.

Best of luck!

Edit:  removed content about the size/stature of the company that was distracting from the point

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/kql8gr/
author:ScrollinMyLifeAway
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:13368
numComments:358
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True