title:
YSK that college is nothing like what high school teachers describe it as

content:
Why YSK: hearing how “terrible” or “difficult” college is from HS teachers can be discouraging; in reality, while it is by no means easy, it is far more enjoyable (imo)


First and foremost, I’d just like to preface this by saying two things:

1. You’re always going to get a bad professor somewhere along the way; it’s inevitable. However saying that, I’d argue that the ratio of bad to good teachers in college is far better than that of high school.

2. I hated high school.


One of the most common things that I’ve heard from HS teachers is that late work is not accepted in college. While this is true for a certain number of professors (primarily the older ones), it is by no means the norm. Every professor has their own system for grading work that is turned in after the deadline, but the most common one (in my experience) is that 1 day late = 1 letter grade drop, for at least the first few days. This, of course, is only if you do not communicate with your professor. As long as you let them know outside of 24h of the due date, they will likely work with you and possibly give you an extension. Remember, your professors want you to succeed; you have to show them that you also want to succeed if you’d like the benefit of the doubt. 

On the subject of tardiness, showing up to classes past their start time is usually completely okay. One major thing that I’d just like to point out: do NOT walk in and begin apologizing profusely to the instructor. In fact, do not say anything at all. Most professors do not mind tardiness; they do, however, absolutely despise students who interrupt lectures with something completely unrelated (ie “I was late because ____”). If you truly feel bad, or run into a teacher who is irritated by students walking in (or zooming in) late, then wait until the end of class to tell your sob story. 

On a related note, “attendance” is not the most important thing. Although it might be kept track of for the college (note: multiple instances of appearing late may equate to an absence), it factors very little into your overall grade. What is far more important is participation. If you merely attend and do not engage in class discussions, or refuse to activate your webcam for the entirety of the semester, you should expect to receive a passing grade and nothing prestigious(assuming you did well on all assignments).   Truthfully, participating in class discussions does far more than merely net you that 10% toward your overall grade; it also puts you in good graces, which can afford you the benefit of the doubt in many situations.

Ultimately, very little statements by HS teachers in reference to higher levels of education is true; in reality, college is so much better than HS, at least imo.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/krbttb/
author:LickMopWho
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:3228
numComments:240
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True