title:
LPT: Learning even the basics of cooking will be the best investment you make in your health, happiness and even your wallet.

content:
Take a class, watch some videos or even just dive right in and start trying some recipes. 

When you start to enjoy your own cooking, you’ll want to do more of it. When you do more of it you get better at it. When you get better at it, you’ll do more of it and so on and so on. 

Eventually you’re enjoying restaurant quality meals every night, saving a fortune on take out, and most importantly learning how to make delicious meals that are actually healthy. 

Bonus LPT: invest in 2 quality knives and 2 quality pans. You don’t need to spend a fortune, just not the discount aisle at Target either. $200 will get you 2 decent knives and 2 decent pans that if cared for will last a long time and get you much better results. Edit: a “Chef’s knife” and a paring knife would be my recommendation. You can get away with a utility knife but a chefs knife rocks better for cutting up veggies. Edit: I would get one nice 12” frying/sautée pan, and one decent sauce pan since you will use these the most. You can spend an absolute fortune on cookware just like anything else when you do it at the high end but I would simply recommend starting with 2 good trusty pans and going from there. 

It doesn’t make sense to have $10,000 worth of stainless steel appliances in your kitchen and then bruise the shit out of everything with a dull knife and burn it all on a $20 pan. 

Invest in your health and happiness in the kitchen.

**Edit to address the most common comment:**
Oof I can’t believe how much flak I’m getting for suggesting that people buy a decent pan and knife if they want to enjoy cooking more.... 


Yes, a skilled chef can make great meals with cheap tools. But this LPT isn’t directed at people who *already* know how to cook, or already know how to keep a knife sharp. This is about giving new cooks the best chance at success and to do that MY OPINION is that you should start with a moderate quality. 

Good enough to do the job, but not so high end they break the bank. I’ve said that countless times now. I’m talking the difference between a $30 knife and a $5 one.

Hobbies cost money, $25 is not a huge investment in something that, as I’ve said multiple times - will save you money and bring you great joy. Especially when you consider the cost of the appliances you’ll be using too. 

If you want to try and get by with a $5 pan and a $5 knife.... have at it. This LPT is not for you. 

I am someone who has spent decades using tools - including knives - to make a living. There is an enormous difference between a $10 blade and a $100 blade. The reason is that quality steel costs more money. Plain and simple. Quality machining costs money.... plain and simple.

There is also an enormous range between the $10 and $100 blades and somewhere in there is what I would consider a “decent” or “reasonable”
Quality for most people to start out with.

I have heard in my lifetime as a woodworker and superintendent people suggest that you *should* learn using cheap tools so that you’ll really appreciate the good ones. 

I disagree. 

In my experience people who start out a hobby with the lowest end in quality will meet one of two fates: 1) they will quickly realize their tools are junk and throw them away and buy better ones - thus completely wasting the initial investment or 2) they will get so frustrated that they can’t achieve the accuracy or quality of whatever YouTube tutorials they’re watching that they’ll just quit and their cheap tools will gather dust forever. 

You *will* still appreciate and be thrilled with the upgrade from “decent” to “high” quality once you learn how to use your equipment - I assure you. 

This LPT is clearly directed at people who have never discovered the joy of cooking. Every single one of those people has a stove and some cookware in their house and for one reason or another has never taken the time to learn to enjoy cooking for themselves or their families. 

The suggestion to invest in some decent tools that will help make it easier or more fun... is just that. A suggestion. 

Keep in mind, no one *has* to be a woodworker like me, but everyone has to eat. No one is ever going to regret frying an egg on a $50 pan but they will probably regret the $5 pan once the coating wears off. 

That’s it. I’m not addressing the cost/quality argument in the comments anymore. I’ve said my piece here. I’m trying to be helpful based on my decades working with tools and equipment (even if it’s not in the cooking industry) and that opinion is simply that you get what you pay for and if you spend a *bit* now you’ll reap the rewards later.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/l30m6z/
author:AlwaysTheAsshole1234
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1710
numComments:87
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True