title:
LPT: handle your pets how they’ll be handled at vet checkups from the start

content:
Handle their feet, legs, face, ears, neck, tail, everything. Get them used to being laid down on their side physically, not just taught a command (they tend to not listen when they hurt and are nervous and don’t know the person asking). Look up common restraint positions and get them used to pressure on those spots (sitting behind, arm around jaw, hand holding leg; sitting and having head held slightly up and looking just to the side). If possible, get them used to the sound of hair clippers even if you don’t use it on them. 

A lot of times, especially with puppies (in my experience, can’t speak for raising kittens), even if they’re acting like they’re getting murdered/will get their revenge on you when you touch their feet or hold them, given enough repetitions they’ll get desensitized and be okay with it as adults. Even as adults! Dogs at work who used to bite at me touching their feet now just look sad.

Having your pet used to being handled in these ways makes it so much easier, SAFER, and less stressful for the vet staff and your pet! Though they may not know us, and they hurt, we aren’t asking them to do anything they’re unfamiliar with. Restraint is as much for their safety as ours. Plus, if they’re even semi cooperative instead of out right fighting us, we’re more able to work with them (hold this way instead of that, give cookies/scratches to distract, less pressure in this spot) instead of unable to do anything without sedation (in terms of drawing blood, xrays, ultrasounds, etc).

ETA: in response to common comments -

1. Please don’t stick anything up your pet’s butt. 

2. I’m not talking about handling your pet (small, large, cat, dog, rat, bird, whatever) in a way that stresses them out more or harms them or you. This is not meant to say “I’m gonna touch your feet and you’ll deal with it or else.” I’m talking about training like anything else. Do whatever baby step for a moment or two, reward. Love. Repeat, go on with your day and try again in several hours or the next day. Don’t go straight to what stresses them out most. If they hate their feet being touched, start with petting their chest, then leg, then foot. Or whatever along those lines. 

3. If you’re not sure about your particular animal and their quirks and they really hate x or y, or have reasons from their past to not like being handled in x or y manner, talk to your vet. Talk to a trainer. 

4. If you have tried, and your pet (again, whatever species) is just hardcore no way in *hell* are you doing that with me, and you’ve worked with your vet and talked with a trainer or otherwise exhausted your options - it’s OKAY. Some animals just aren’t going to want to be handled in certain ways. That’s fine! Just know that if someone who doesn’t know your pet has to work with them, you’ll need to inform that person. 

5. If you don’t like how the vet or trainer is saying to do something, find a new one. You and your pet are unique individuals and what works for others may not work for you. Don’t be afraid to search for 2nd or even 3rd opinions to find what does work.

Edit 2 - holy shit guys thank you so much for all the awards! They’re my first. I’m glad to know this resonated with so many people!! 
I’ve been trying to keep up with comments but there’s so many and my weekend is over, so I likely won’t be replying much but I will read them! 

Also- for those who are all like “this is common sense” “don’t have pets” etc - this post isn’t for you, please just ignore it. I’m glad you’ve got your ducks (or rocks if you don’t want pets I guess) in a row and have all the answers. This is for those who don’t know. 

Enjoy your pets, snuggle up and give them treats and love! May you all be safe and healthy and not need any of these tips any time soon &lt;3

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/l9gfqu/
author:arcticdryas
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:16285
numComments:320
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True