title:
LPT: You will want different things at different stages of life. It’s okay, and don’t feel like you’re disappointing your “past self” for wanting something different.

content:
I came across this revelation not too long ago. I’ve posted/commented on other subs about this struggle before. I realized many others related. When I was younger I was very passionate about, well, everything. In middle school I was already starting full-fledged businesses, in highschool I was teaching myself robotics + programming. Always wanted to work at startups, always wanted to be a part of something. But the key thing is: I would frown upon those that had no passion in life. I’d use that quote over and over again about most men dying at 25 but being buried at 75. I could not wrap my head around someone wanting a peaceful life where they just want to settle down and enjoy themselves. I considered it an *early death*.

Fast forward a few years, and that’s exactly what I wanted. My passion passed and I was prioritizing stability above all else. And I hated myself for it. I searched for ways to get back to my super motivated and passionate self. I didn’t want to become that adult I swore I would never become. Some people told me it may be a mental illness, and it can be in your own situation, but that never ended up being the issue. Others said to just get my shit together and get disciplined. Which I did do, but I really just improved my health/lifestyle. I never got back to that feeling where it felt like I wanted success more than anything. Where it felt like I was breathing fire.

So, to sum it up, it took me an embarrassingly long time to realize that it’s okay to prioritize stability as you get older. It’s a part of growing up. Your priorities will change. I mean, if you’re able to pull constant overnighters and run your own business at 35? That’s great, good for you. But for most of us, that won’t last forever. And that’s okay. Or maybe it’s the opposite case for you, where you currently want to be a single CEO or something while your past self wanted a nice big family. That’s okay too. Your past self won’t be disappointed in you, because your past self is a construct you’ve made up in your mind. There’s most likely no way to fully recreate your past mindset. Right now, you are your present self. And all that matters is what your present self prioritizes and wants in their life.

PS: This is my first time posting here so I’m not 100% sure if this belongs or if the flair is right. Sorry in advance. Also edit for grammar.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/lezefi/
author:redTalisman23
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:35408
numComments:580
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True