title:
LPT - if you need to hang a picture, or any type of bracket or shelf that comes with holes at a certain spacing, use the tape trick.

content:
Let’s say a picture frame, a shelf or most recently for me a baby monitor camera comes with hooks at a certain spacing and you need to put screws in the wall on that spacing....

Instead of measuring it with a ruler or measuring tape which can leave a margin for error, simply take a piece of painters tape or masking tape, tape it along the back of the shelf/picture frame/baby monitor camera and poke holes in the tape where the hooks are. 

Then remove the tape, and re-stick it on the wall where you want to hang it. 

Now you have a perfect fool proof spacing for your screws. 

This one was life changing for me. So simple yet so effective. Perfect alignment and super easy to level every time.

This is especially helpful for keyhole hangers where the head of the screw has to line up perfectly with the fat part of the keyhole slot. 

For those asking for a [video, here is one I just pulled off YouTube. I don’t claim to have invented this trick I just know a lot of people have never seen it before. ](https://youtu.be/NS7l6G0-Otw) 

Edit: wow I didn’t expect this one to take off. Thanks so much for all the awards! 

To those saying “I guess this is for people who don’t know how to use a measuring tape”... I was a professional carpenter/woodworker for several years of my life, I definitely know my way around a measuring tape. “Story sticks” are used in all aspects of woodworking... especially woodturning, this is basically a “story tape”. It’s used when the exact numerical measurement doesn’t matter, but the exact spacing or length does. This is basically that. Sure, you can try to take the measurement, eyeballing the centre of the hooks on the bracket and then transfer it to the wall... holding a tape measure sideways on a wall is not that easy to do either. Or you can do this. It’s just a life hack. You can do whatever you want.... this works and it’s pretty fool proof and it’s saved me a lot of headaches. Lots of ways to achieve the same result... this is my favourite so I posted it for you. No need to get nasty :/

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/m9k2tl/
author:AlwaysTheAsshole1234
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:33422
numComments:616
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True