title:
LPT: If someone passes away and you found out before most of your friends or family, don’t post it to socia media immediately. No one should find out from Facebook that someone they were closed to died.

content:
Please wait a day or two before posting to social media about a loved ones passing. People should get the news through the proper channels and not through a post that says “RIP Brotha”

Unfortunately, that’s what happened to me. A close friend of mine unexpectedly died. I was traveling at the time and a friend posted to social media the second that he found out. I was scrolling through my phone sitting on a subway when I read the post. I should have been told through a phone call or at least something more personal. Facebook is the last place I want to find that information out - especially for a close friend.

To be clear, I’m not arguing that you shouldn’t post condolences or fond memories at all. All I’m saying is wait at least a day so people close to the deceased can properly be notified.

Don’t think you’re cool because you were the first to break the bad news to all of your Facebook friends. Be respectful of the people around you that could be about to go through a difficult time.

&amp;#x200B;

**Edit:** Wow! I’ve never had a post blow up before. Now I understand what RIP my inbox means.

I can’t believe how many people this has happened to. To all of you who found out that a loved one passed in this way, I’m truly sorry. It’s really impersonal and is a horrible start to the grieving process.

I think a great addition from u/illthinkofonel8er is “Not just death, births, engagement, weddings, pregnancies, anything big”. A good rule of thumb is to let the main people involved give the news and share your thoughts after. Again, I would argue in the case of deaths, don’t share on social media for 24-48 hours even if you are one of the main people close to the deceased. Let it go through the correct, personal channels before posting.

To the people that say it’s not a big deal, it’s a valid opinion. The main thing is that the person died and more people know about it now. However - maybe I’m old fashioned, but I would prefer a call or something more personal if it’s someone close. I’d like to talk it over with someone I care about and understand the full extent of the situation.

To all of you who say “delete Facebook and never worry about it again”, you’re not wrong. For a lot of people, social media is very toxic. For some (me included), it’s still a way of getting small updates from friends that you are no longer close with. There are events and deaths that I probably wouldn’t have known about if it wasn’t for social media and I’m glad I found out though Facebook rather then not finding out at all. That being said, it wouldn’t have made a difference to me if I would have found out those things a couple days later.

To all of you who say “just don’t post anything”, you’re also not wrong. People make these posts about themselves to just get attention. It’s really not a good look in my opinion. I will say that there is a time to make a thoughtful post or share some old pictures if you feel that’s necessary. There’s definitely something cathartic about people that you genuinely care about giving support and knowing that you’re not going through something alone. I personally enjoy seeing old stories and thoughtful post and pictures about friends who have passed.

I just advocate for having good timing and good reasoning for these types of posts.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/mden1f/
author:Aswiec
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:31404
numComments:1170
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True