title:
YSK: joking about suicide is a sign of a crisis point in a medical condition

content:
Why YSK: it may not be a joke; this can be a sign that someone is reaching out for help, they don't necessarily want to die but may not see a way out and are looking for help but with all the stigma associated with mental illness it can be hard to come out and say exactly what's going on.

*Edit*: a few folks have highlighted that these can just be jokes without intent behind them. if they are just jokes and that's it that's ok but it's always safest to check in case it's not. Hard to know for certain what the prevalence is of jokes just as jokes but it is important to take seriously just in case

It's important to remember that some who is considering suicide likely has a medical condition which affects their thinking processes so someone should not be dismissed or told to get over it (they would if they could) -- it would be equivalent to telling someone with a broken arm that there was nothing wrong with them. (Note how I phrase it as a medical condition instead of mental illness specifically to remove a sense of judgement)

What can you do? Ask them straight whether they are considering suicide and if they are find out if there are family or friends they would feel comfortable knowing and able to call if they feel suicidal. They may not feel comfortable reaching out to family or friends and that's okay. Instead or as well as that there are divided prevention hotlines in most countries who will help.
Ultimately you want to speak calmly with them and see if they will agree to contact a trusted family member or friend or a suicide prevention number before enacting any plans to die by suicide.

Don't worry, you won't make someone consider suicide by asking them about it.

You may not be comfortable having this conversation, suicide prevention websites and numbers can often advise on how to have this conversation.

Also if you notice someone on Reddit with these signs, use the report option and select other and select 'someone is considering suicide'

Other warning signs: giving things away, seeming hopelessness and despair, seeming flat in mood, drastic changes in weight and apparent signs of insomnia.

[Source: I am a mental health first aider, see also https://www.beyondblue.org.au/the-facts/suicide-prevention/feeling-suicidal/suicidal-warning-signs, https://www.choc.org/articles/9-signs-your-child-may-be-considering-suicide/]

Also YSK: helping other people through this kind of situation can be draining on ourselves as supports, be sure to be kind to yourself and take time to recharge, you too matter and are important

Stay safe

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/mf001z/
author:humanbeingahuman
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:2994
numComments:159
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True