title:
LPT: Ask for documentation of your SO’s finances before you get married or move in together. Then discuss financial expectations in depth. This could prevent surprises in the future.

content:
What your SO tells you and what is true may not be the same thing. This doesn’t mean that they’re lying, but their perspective of their financial situation may be different from yours. And your assumptions about marital finances may not be the same. 

My personal experience is that my own SO told me that they had school debt, but they also were a successful businesses owner. I did not know until after the fact that they had bills in collections, including very small bills that should have been easy to pay, and the business was not paying the bills. They were relying on parents and romantic partners to foot the expenses. They also had not filed taxes in years. I’m very lucky I didn’t end up responsible for their personal debts. I paid tens of thousands of dollars of community debt because I knew they wouldn’t and didn’t want it to affect my credit score.

Finances aren’t romantic, but it cannot be stressed enough that a lack of financial transparency can kill an otherwise good relationship. Love is difficult when your brain is occupied by consuming debt and whether you can make the next payment on the credit card because you know your spouse can’t or won’t. The loneliest I have ever been was while being married to someone who, among other things, was financially irresponsible. 

Better yet, I would strongly recommend that every marriage starts with a prenuptial agreement that outlines what you expect from your partnership, both financially and otherwise. We often think of prenups as being for the rich and famous. But they provide legal protections and fairness that most state laws don’t provide. You can also craft fair resolutions that otherwise wouldn’t be possible in many contentious divorces.

A prenup is the means to a (sometimes) cheaper divorce if things go awry.

Edit: just to be clear, this isn’t about ensuring that your SO is making X amount of money, has the best credit score, or is debt free. It’s about ensuring they are on the same page as you.

Some in the comments say this is the worst advice they’ve ever heard, some say it is the best. Others say this shows a lack of trust and isn’t romantic.

Marriage is not all romance. Even the best marriages require discussions about unpleasant topics. I would counter that sharing your financial info and your SO sharing theirs is the act of ultimate trust. It can be embarrassing and uncomfortable to share financial information, but when you become a team in marriage, you need to face embarrassing and uncomfortable things.

There is just no way to know your SO’s financial situation unless they share it with you, no matter how much trust you have in them. Unless you’re following them to work or watching them spend money, you won’t know. (And I don’t suggest you do either of those things, because THAT is a lack of trust.) The fact that you’re asking them to provide the big picture is the transparency that every marriage needs. 

If you don’t want to do that, that’s fine. This is advice based on my own experience, which was a terrible situation but is the reality for many, many married people who enter a marriage thinking their spouse can do no wrong.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/mguzan/
author:MeguhMillion
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1776
numComments:209
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True