title:
LPT: If you are going through something difficult or life altering, like deep personal loss, straight up tell your friends/family how you want to be supported. Don’t be afraid to ask - oftentimes they really do want to help you but don’t know how to, and so will likely appreciate the directness.

content:
I went through a loss recently and realised very quickly that people don’t know what to say or how to be around you when you’re grieving, unless they’ve been through the same thing. They make poorly worded well-intended comments but I find pity and sympathy annoying and unhelpful. 

“You poor thing” “Oh honey you must be so crushed” “Oh darling you are such a brave little warrior”

NOPE. Not having it. Might work for some - and that’s fine - but I’m not a poor thing, nor am I a little warrior. I’m strong af but sometimes life hands you s^it and you just have to deal with it.

So I started saying upfront - do not feel sorry for me, that does not help me. But let me process by talking to you about it when I’m ready. Let me reach out to you. Tell me you’re thinking of me, but that’s plenty for now. And if you’ve been through something similar I’d like to hear how you coped. 

Of course don’t be aggressive. Express your gratitude. But be direct! 

Yes you can send me food, we have not cooked in a week and are relying on take out. No please don’t send me flowers, but could you tell our yoga instructor that I’ll be MIA for a couple of weeks. No I do not want to be sent sympathy cards but if you want to send me some wine I’ll take it!

Different strokes for different folks: just ASK. You will have time to express gratitude, and you can do it in the moment, but at least you will be given the support you want. 

I tried this and it WORKED! Every single person I said this to respected my requests and supported me the way I needed to feel better. And it genuinely helped me move forward and made me feel so grateful for their presence in my life.

EDIT: Thank you for all the awards and thank you for sharing all your stories. The comments and messages I’ve received make me feel so glad I posted this. It’s hugely gratifying to know that it has helped even one person. Thank you, thank you and take care ♥️

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/mjy4ib/
author:vforvegas
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:33245
numComments:420
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True