title:
LPT - there is no shame in setting calendar reminders and alarms both for important things like meetings AND mundane things like the milk expiration date if it helps you be successful. If it’s something you tend to forget, set a reminder or calendar alert.

content:
Edit to add: I forgot that not everyone buys two gallons of milk at a time. That’s like... 7.6 liters. This is clearly a me-problem.

EDIT: And this is officially my high point on the internet 30k upvotes and loads of awards I don't understand. I'm glad you found this helpful!

——-

This has been a long process of realization for myself, and I figured it could help someone else.

If there is ANYTHING under the sun which you tend to forget about, set an alarm, reminder, or calendar alert for it. It doesn’t matter if it’s the weekly meeting, your significant other’s (or pet’s) birthday, or if it’s the expiration date for the milk you bought.

To begin with, it might clutter your calendar or wherever you put reminders, but it could potentially help you remember better in the long run because you are taking an active step towards remembering and being proactive instead of reactive. It’ll also help you be more proactive in reducing possible waste which will save you money.

For perishables like milk, tofu, meat, cottage cheese or anything else you can eat, set a reminder a week or a few days before the expiration date. Then, it’ll be more likely that you can actually manage to use the perishable food or, possibly, it might at least give you time to offer someone else the food you know you just won’t use. 

This sounded really silly when I first came up with the idea, but it has been a lifesaver in terms or reducing food waste. It has felt even more important now that money has become more of an issue, and using the milk instead of dumping it down the drain feels much better inside.

As a final note, there are many foods which last a couple days past the expiration date, but cottage cheese is NOT one of them. It’s not worth it. It will smell fine, but it will probably still give you food poisoning.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/mlgf5r/
author:Pangolindrome
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:30605
numComments:896
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True