title:
YSK about pronation and supination, and how it can affect your walking/running

content:
Why YSK:   
I'll save the personal anecdote, but essentially, inappropriate pronation or supination can be a symptom of a wider biomechanical issue which can have a dramatic effect how you run and walk, and can also be the cause of some short term knee, ankle and hip pain as well as put you at bigger risk of injuries if you have an underlying condition that affects your gait.

Pronation and supination by itself isn't necessarily bad and you may not have any issues, if you pronate or supinate, this is your natural running/walking gait and sometimes correcting it can do more harm than good. 

Sometimes, in the case of underlying biomechanical issues, you may experience pain, balance issues, or discomfort when running, walking or, as one commenter has pointed out, ice skating, in this case, it may be good to check your pronation and correct it.

If you overpronate, your foot rolls *inward* when it makes contact with the ground  

If you supinate, your foot rolls *outward* when it makes contact with the ground  


It's important to know whether your foot is neutral, pronates or supinates, and get the appropriate shoe or orthotic to support your feet in the short term, and do strength training to better strengthen your limb.


The simplest way to check is to look at some old shoes.  
Look at the soles, if there is more wear where the ball of your foot is, then you pronate, if there is more wear on the outer area of the foot, then you supinate, if the wear is not on any side and firmly centred, you're neutral.   


Other ways you can check are to go to a sports store, preferably one that specialises in running, they will be able to do a check, usually for free, and offer some recommendations.   


GP's (at least in my experience in the UK) will not usually focus on pronation or supination when you go to them complaining of unexplained pain in your legs when you exercise, and physiotherapists may only offer generic exercises to strengthen the affected limb and not tackle the issue itself. So if you're struggling with some unexplained pain in your ankles, knees, hips or even lower back and you're at a loss, check your pronation, it's an off-chance check, but it could help you out.   


Pronation and supination doesn't just affect running, though it is more important in that sport because of the amount of stress you're putting on your ankles with every step.   


as a word of note - I personally highly recommend specially built shoes to support your natural gait when you run, over orthotic inserts. Orthotic inserts are generally very uncomfortable and can make an otherwise good fitting shoe unbearable to wear. 

sauce: [https://stretchcoach.com/articles/pronation-supination/](https://stretchcoach.com/articles/pronation-supination/)

EDIT: thanks to u/cmc0108 for correcting me on the fact that pronation generally isn't the cause of injuries unless there is an underlying condition that causes it.

EDIT 2: wow! This blew up! Thank you all for the engagement and awards! And more importantly a BIG thank you to those who have been so kind as to correct me on my points!!

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/mthhca/
author:zeealex
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:8557
numComments:286
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True