title:
YSK You're not supposed to be happy all the time.

content:
Happiness, just like sadness, is one extreme end of the emotional spectrum. It is not supposed to be the default setting for humans, no more than being always sad is. 

Our entire social architecture is based upon "Achieving True Happiness" and apparently the people who aren't happy all the time are somehow doing something wrong? 

That's not how it's supposed to work. Your brain cannot physically be happy all time. Why could it? It can't sustain any other emotion permanently as well. You will never always feel moody, or horny, or emotionally hurt or even sad. Then why are you expected to always be happy?

(Yes, people suffering from depression can feel an overwhelming sadness all the time, but again, that's an illness. It's supposed to be treated and cured. If being stuck on one end of the spectrum is an illness, logically, as is the other extreme no?)

Happiness is a positive response in your brain to a stimulus. Got that promotion? Be elated! Got that girl/guy? Jump and scream in joy. 

Biologically speaking, being happy has exactly 0 uses for survival. While it is a stimulus response, it's definitely not meant to last. Neither is the feeling of contentment. A content monkey, is an inattentive monkey, is a monkey inside a tiger.

So, what's the solution?

Instead of trying to achieve pure happiness, try to attain a feeling of contentment. A healthy 5 on the 0-10 sadness-happiness scale. Live your live in a way that completely satisfies you, so that at the end of the day you can go to sleep in peace. 

Most often than not you'll be feeling a 4. On bad days it'll be a 2. On great days an 8, and on the best day of your life a 14. But never a constant 10. Literally biologically impossible.

**Why YSK**: In today's world, more often than not, people are just expected to be happy all time. Even if your life is going perfectly, the stress of not being happy all the time is a real feeling that a lot of people have internalized. The stress of it can in fact keep you from feeling happy even when you really should. 

If you've ever thought to yourself, "Man, everything in my life is going well, why am I not happy?", keep this post in mind. Perhaps, you're just content?

In conclusion, Humans are not built to be happy the time. They're build to be a 3.5 at best on the happiness scale. An anxious monkey is an alive monkey!

P.S: As to what content means? You can decide yourself. For me it means a hot cup of tea, a blanket, and a good movie. Enough to lull me to a comfortable sleep.

Source: [Psychology Today](https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/you-are-not-meant-be-happy/202102/you-are-not-meant-be-happy)

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/mwhpno/
author:theBlackBriarWolf
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:1906
numComments:69
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True