title:
YSK if you randomly see a dryer sheet in the back of your mailbox, your mail carrier put it there for a reason

content:
Why YSK: it could save your carrier from being stung

Letter Carrier here. 

We’re almost to the month of May which means nice weather, hanging out outside, school closing for the summer, and the return of those dastardly devils: Yellowjackets and Wasps.

I’m sure you’ve noticed. But just in case you haven’t, this time of the year wasps and Yellowjackets (especially Yellowjackets) like to make nests inside of mailboxes. In a lot of places this time of the year, it’s just beginning to warm up outside, but it’s still fairly cold at night. So mailboxes provide nice, easy shelter for them. 

I can’t tell you how many times, especially during this part of the year, where I’ve opened up a box to see a little nest with 3-5 Yellowjackets just chillin. If I’m really unlucky, they will have made their nest at the very back of the box so I wind up sticking my hand in not knowing they are there. We all know how temperamental these little douchebags are and merely existing in their presence is enough to piss them off. Last year alone I was stung 10 times on 10 separate occasions. 

Getting to my point. We’ve found that they hate scented dryer sheets. If we encounter a box that is a problem for nests, we’ll often put one in there and it does the trick.

So please, if you one day randomly see a dryer sheet at the back of your mailbox, just know that your carrier more than likely put it there to deter these Satanic creatures from building their home in it.

Edit: there’s been a lot of good questions in the comments and I’m having a heck of a time replying to them so let me just add an edit.

1. It really doesn’t matter so much what brand you buy, if it’s eco-friendly, or what scent it is. All that matters is that it is scented. The scent seems to be what deters them. So any scented dryer sheet should suffice!

2. This should only be used as a *preventative measure.* I’ve never tried when there’s a huge nest so I have no idea if it would work. I just immediately leave a note on the customer’s door letting them know they need to take care of the nest before I can resume delivering their mail. It would be best to get rid of the large nest and then put a dryer sheet in to keep them from coming back.

3. As far as when to replace them, just check it periodically to see if the scent is still strong or if it has faded. The scent, once again, is what drives them away. So if the scent isn’t as strong or it has completely faded, it’s time to replace it.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/n0qs06/
author:istrx13
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:59380
numComments:1443
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True