title:
LPT: You don't need to commit to one path in life. You'll often find that your interests change, and once you're done with one thing, it's perfectly healthy to look for something else to pursue.

content:
I'm only 32, and I've already done more jobs and pursued more things than I can count. I've been a filmmaker, a game developer, a therapist, a business systems programmer, a game tester, a customer service representative for god knows how many companies, a bartender, a chef, and currently, a university lecturer. If you're focusing on one thing and placing all your perceived self worth in success at said one thing, that's a mistake that will only make you miserable.

Edit: Just wanted to say thanks for all the lovely messages and awards (aside from this one:  [Thanks for that... - Imgur](https://imgur.com/gallery/51C039b). Sounds like that person could use my therapy skills XD)

Edit 2: There seems to be a lot of fussing and feuding in the comments, so I'll address that. A university lecturer here in the UK is simply someone who teaches at a university. I know in some other places we are called "professors", but that's kind of an inaccurate term, since we are rarely professors in terms of our qualifications. A professorship in terms of the qualification comes after a doctorate. I personally have a doctorate, and thus my title is "doctor", but that's entirely different to a MEDICAL doctor (M.D), which I am very much not. At any rate, you don't even need to be a doctor to teach at a university here in the UK, just someone experienced in the field you're teaching in (my doctorate isn't even remotely related to games development, which is what I teach, for example). I wonder whether people are thinking I'm claiming to be a medical doctor or something? My doctorate is in a subject related to medicine, but I am not qualified as a literal MEDICAL DOCTOR, as in someone who can treat you in a hospital and prescribe medication etc. Do I sound that intelligent to you?? Trust me, I'm not XD

Maybe people are confused because a doctorate simply means you've completed a doctorate (often called an "academic/research degree") in the UK? Anyone can apply to do one, and universities frequently publish requests for people to apply to undertake them. In my case, I was required to take an MPhil (Master of Philosophy) course before I began the doctorate. That's pretty standard since I didn't have one yet, and someone else was funding my doctorate application.

If you want more information, shoot me a message and I'll provide proof of this all. I'm not posting it out in public.  

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/n1xuqs/
author:kutuup1989
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:48393
numComments:1643
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True