title:
LPT- Don't tell scammers that you have a Dash Cam.

content:
If someone tries to scam you while you are driving a vehicle, do not inform the scammer that you have a dashcam. They will just leave the scene immediately. Instead, just call the police. Do not exchange insurance info without police present. When the police arrive, allow them to get a statement from the "victim." When they come to you for a statement, show them your dashcam footage. Falsifying a police statement is illegal, and they will not only be caught red handed scamming someone, but their charges will be more severe for falsifying a statement. Plus if they are in a vehicle when they tried to scam you, their insurance premiums will probably go through the roof. Remember, if they tried to scam you, they have tried to scam someone else, and are likely going to continue trying to scam others in the future. Let's stop allowing them to get away with it so easily.

Update: Lots of really good discussion. Plenty of people who think my LPT is crap, and that's fine! Happy to see people having good discussions and sharing their own experiences, and how/why this LPT might not be good advice for people in their areas. 

Also, lots of questions on what dashcam to purchase and how they work. I got a $45 dollar dashcam from Amazon. It had pretty good reviews, which is what I look for in a product. They come with a memory card, which stores the video as your drive. When the card gets full, it should automatically delete the oldest video's to fit the new videos. If an accident occurs, your pull the memory card and plug into your computer to save the video you want. The dashcam plugs into your vehicles cigarette lighter. As far as I know, no dashcam records multiple viewpoints. You will need to purchase more than one dashcam if you want front, rear, and side facing dashcams. Hopefully this helps to address some of the questions I have seen.

Update #2: someone says  dash cams that record multiple angles at once do exist. I didn’t know this, but great info! The commenter couldn’t remember the brand but I am sure someone can give more info.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/n3f61h/
author:gargle-mayonaise
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:59132
numComments:2217
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True