title:
LPT: If an entry level job lists "Sales" as one of the responsibilities you can safely ignore anything else listed, that will be your job.

content:
There are a plague of "companies" (fronts) out there that prey on college grads (particularly grads that don't have an immediately applicable non STEM degree) desperate for a job or retail workers that desperately want out of the big box retail store scene. They will list these jobs as being "Event Coordinators" or "Marketing Associates". It's a lie, you can find these people at stores like Costco trying to sell some useless appliance that no one wants or going door to door trying to sell other appliances that no one wants.

And the recruiters that craft these resumes are VERY good at just bending the truth enough that  what is on the job description isn't technically a lie, but any reasonable person's interpretation of the description is nothing like the reality of the position. That's why the title is what it is: if they list sales, that is what you will be doing and nothing else.

An easy way to avoid this is to google the name of the company you are applying to. Either nothing will come up or they will be associated with other companies that are accused of doing the same thing.

TLDR: Be careful which companies you invest time into when you are applying and interviewing for a job.

Edit: Something that I should have clarified is that I don't have a problem with sales jobs or people that work them. The point is that if the company feels the need to hide what the job is or lie about it on the description, something isn't right.

Edit 2: Thank you for all the awards kind strangers. I think this is the first real post I've put up on Reddit and the fact that it blew up so much is really encouraging.

Edit 3: I've been told that the majority of these types of jobs can be found under the umbrella of two companies named Cydcor and Smart Circle. 

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/na0qxn/
author:VenoMothMaker
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:60333
numComments:1678
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True