title:
LPT: Don't shuck corn at the store. In fact, just cook it in the husk.

content:
Unfortunately, in many suburbs and cities and more, often where the shoppers have never set foot on a real cornfield, it's become commonplace to shuck corn in stores. Some stores even put out trash cans to reduce the mess from these shoppers.

Don't do that. You don't peel bananas in stores. So don't shuck your corn there either.

People who actually know corn/maize leave the husk on so the corn doesn't dry out. 

Look for ears with soft healthy tassels (not wet, not brittle), tight green husks, thick, firm, and heavy for their size. If the end of the corn is firm and full, the end kernels probably are good too. Like many fruits, if two ears of the same size are different weights, then the heavier one is the juiciest.

If you look like you're fondling penises/dildos to select the best one, then you're probably doing it correctly.

You don't need to peel back the husk in the store. You absolutely shouldn't peel it back, poke a fingernail in it, and then reject it by leaving the now-ruined-and-contaminated corn on the sales display. SMH

Just feel it and weigh it.  Then cook it or freeze it within 48 hours of purchase.

You can even cook it with the husk still on, which is easier and less mess. 

Cook the corn on the grill or in the oven, husk on. About 350 F for at least 30 minutes is usually enough, but you can go a bit hotter and longer.  Remove from heat (they'll look black and toasty in spots). Chop the stem end off. Then grab the tassel and pull in opposite directions like a banana or tug the whole thing in one go like removing a sock from a foot. The silk comes right off, easier after cooking than raw.  If it's too hot, use a tea towel to spare your fingers. 

If you plan to use the corn in soup or stew, it's still best to buy day of and shuck immediately before cooking. Cut the stem end first for easier shucking and pull the tassel end like a sock.  Then add the corn directly to the hot liquid to cook.

Corn is usually a summer crop, so if you're in the USA, expect the good ears around Father's Day or Independence Day (this depends on your area, although it lasts later into July and August too for the corn belt). In the winter, buy canned or frozen corn instead.

Don't make the store clean up after your ignorance about corn.

If you buy pre-shucked corn that's on a Styrofoam tray wrapped in plastic, instead of just buying in-husk corn, you're being extra wasteful and you just fell for an easy marking trick of thinking with your eyes instead of your other senses. Corn has perfectly good, all natural, biodegradable packaging. It doesn't need Styrofoam and Saran wrap.

Edited: Added some date clarity from other tips. Thanks!

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/nbghi1/
author:LividLadyLivingLoud
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:4802
numComments:581
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True