title:
LPT - Bra Fitting!

content:
Some pro tips for finding a proper fit and why 80% of people with breasts can’t find their proper size in big box lingerie store.

Tips for measuring:
1. When you measure your rib cage make sure that your tape is level horizontally, and is as snug as you can get it. A bra band will stretch for the entire period of its life, and to ensure that you get the longest lasting garment you want to make sure that you get a snug fit and plan to wear it on the loosest hook. 

2. Don’t be intimidated by the letter your true gives you, many commercial bra suppliers have simplified their production process by providing a limited range of band and cup sizes. We have societally been programmed to think that anything more than D or DD is “huge”. I have met many many people who wear a cup size that is closer to G, H or I, and that is not uncommon

3. It is normal for you to measure yourself at one size and find you are another. This is due to body shape, breast shape/composition, breast height in relation to shoulder/shoulder blades, or comfort level ie. discomfort to tight fitting garments) you may feel more comfortable in a slightly different size, or your breasts may call for a slightly different cup size depending on the density of your breast tissue. Go down in the band or up in the cup, or go up in the band and down in the cup to fine tune the fit.

4. Calculating the size - start by measuring your rib cage, just under your bust. See point 1 above. Measure in inches: if you land at an even number, it would be your band size. If you get an odd number, round it up to the nearest even inch.
Then measure around the fullest part of your chest, again keeping the tape level. Next, count the difference between your band size and your bust measurement. The difference denotes your cup size. 0=AA; 1=A; 2=B; 3=C; 4=D; 5=DD; 6=E; 7=F; 8=FF; 9=G; 10=GG; 11=H; 12=HH; 13=I; 14=J and so on. Note not every letter has a “double”

A good fit MUST meet these criteria:
1. The wires sit FLUSH on your breastbone (between your breasts)

2. The bra does not slide up or down when you move your arms (Test this by raising your arms vertically over your head, if your wires lift from your rib cage, or your breasts fall out the bottom, your band is too loose.)

WHY 1 and 2 ARE IMPORTANT! —— A bra can NEVER support your breast tissue on your shoulders alone. It must have a solid band to ground that weight on to before it can properly lift and support breast tissue in the way that we would like. A tight, snug fitting band is absolutely Paramount for a proper fitting bra.

3. Breast tissue should not spill over the top of the cups. In some cases we breast having individuals have tissue that has expanded and contracted frequently and we may find that it is less supple than it was before. Ideally we want all of this tissue to fit nicely within the cups without spilling over or wrinkling, as a professional bra fitter, my goal was to find the right bra shape to ensure that every human that I fitted didn’t have wrinkly boobs when I was done with them. 

4. The straps should be comfortable, and never be too far apart for your body type. The last thing any of us want to do is constantly pull up our straps! While there devices that help prevent this, a properly fitted bra taking the bra shape in relation to the shoulder slope and width should help us avoid this annoying circumstance!

Now... why we can’t find our true size in a big chain/box store:

Many bra manufacturers limit their production run to the “most popular” (this is a big ugly lie!) sizes, which is band sizes between 32-42 and cup sizes A-DD. Each cup and band size combination requires a different wire. Eg. A 34 C and a 36 C do not have the same wire... 
By limiting their variety of sizes, they in turn save money. These manufacturers are the reason we thing a DD is the biggest cup size when in reality we are all just wearing a band that’s too loose to accommodate our breast tissue. They basically make us go up in the band and down in the cup WAY more than we should!!

Edited: Forgot the important number 4 in the first section 🧐

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/nds23j/
author:GuiltyExpression1431
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1476
numComments:175
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True