title:
LPT: Battling addictions, depression or burnout syndrome is hard enough, battling it once your place becomes a trash-filled waiting room of a grave is even worse. Here is my tested advice on how to get yourself to clean it up.

content:

- TRASH FIRST. It will go so much quicker than you think and seeing the huge clear progress will cheer you up spectacularly. Get a roll of plastic bags. Start from the floors. Just grab everything that is 'definitely a trash' and move through the flat. The first place you clean is where the first bag goes to stand. Take another. Do another few metres square. Maybe another if you feel like it. Now you got a pathway buddy. Nice, easy pathway from one place to another. It will take a lot of bags, I won't lie. But it will feel damn good. You'll breathe better. You'll be so relieved, so much weight of your shoulders. Make pathways, and then start working on the islands between them. You'll be so proud of yourself when you see all the bags by the door ready to be taken out. That's few kilos of your worries gone. And it can take as little as hour. Put on some funky music. I'm talking J Lo - I Ain't Your Mama kinda funky. Dancey, silly. Some oldies from when life was easier. Just not slow. DON'T STOP UNTIL YOU'RE DONE WITH THIS PART WHATEVER HAPPENS. Take a break if you need to, but don't be tempted to take this part bit by bit for days. Keeping in your comfort zone got you here. *Staying in your comfort zone will kill you*








- dishes and laundry. Whichever order you prefer. Put the dishes in the kitchen, and the laundry on a big pile. Start the first batch. We got a lot of stuff to do, and the rhythmic sounds of the washing machine are kinda funny. You can dance to it a little as you're cleaning. And a warm clean laundry in a nice pile is like a hug for the soul, much needed after a stressful time. Do the dishes. It will be daunting. But you'll have nice clean plates and will fill up the cabinets again. Swipe them off dust before. This may be one of the hardest parts, so get to it on the beginning. Even if you run out of energy after, you did the most difficult part. And if you don't manage, it is fine, because it is the most difficult part. You'll get there. One mug at a time, one plate at a time. You can use the first mug and spoon you clean to make yourself some nice cup of tea.








- stand alone mess concentrations like fridge and oven can wait. We're doing the floors now. Pick up what's left after the trash and laundry round. Dust off the vacuum cleaner. Get in there all the way. You'll be so surprised how big and airy the whole place suddenly is. Personally, this was the most satisfying part.






After that, there will still be, other than the daunting fridges and ovens, microwaves and bathtubs of the world, a lot of stuff to do. But take a break. Take a lil walk through the flat. You did half the job and you can take the remainer bit by bit. You'll feel the motivation to do it right back after a rest. Get a glass of water. Go for a walk if you can. Dust off surfaces. Bathrooms can be awful, but the more satisfying to get done with. You can take a week to do it all, but once you do, trust me. You'll feel revived. You'll have a place you can relax in, without constantly feeling like a failure and pushing yourself deeper into a spiral with it. 




You may not even feel much love for the present self chief. Maybe you hate that person, or who they were, whatever. It doesn't really matter what got you in a bad place. You're in one, and it fucking sucks, it hurts, it suffocates. You NEED a clean place to heal. You won't get better when everywhere you look, you see products of sadness. Out with that sh-t. You thought you'll rest for a while and stuff will get better. Buddy, I'm so sorry it didn't. It's fair you tried. Now, let's save you and try the other way. Do it for your future self. Let today be the day you decide to help yourself. Take a good look in the mirror. You are the brain - the rest is at your disposal. Say, "you belong to me and you'll do what I need now." Don't be afraid to get your hands messy. Ignore how bad it is along the way. Someone once said, *as ugly as it needs to be, to see the things you need to see* 



Good luck out there friend.



TOUGH LOVE EDIT (tw: suicide reference and generally darker end-note you might want to avoid if you feel you need cheer rather than some constant reality checkings. I do *not* recommend the following to everyone, and that is not a strategy to make you read it - please apply yourself, you know yourself best and I'm trying to help, not scare you)


Overwhelmed with the love this post got. Ya'll are beautiful and I wish you the best. Just one thing I feel needs to be added. I first wrote a post like this as a comment, in response to a messy, needle filled room of someone on another subreddit. They were extremely grateful, and all excited to get to cleaning as soon as they get home from work commute. I responded to that comment again in about 2 days, asking how they are doing. No word. In about a week, I checked again. They posted some druggie dank meme, and a few days later a post to suicidewatch. Two generic comments the next day, and now nothing for two months. I still check about once a week. I know there is a chance that they got their life together and quit reddit as well for good measure, sure. But there is also a chance they never got to see their place clean again, and ended within it. I'm sorry to make a positive post dark, but it is a side we need to remember. Fight for yourself. Clean it like it is your best friend's place. Get out like your life depends on it, because it might. There is not a 0% chance that person might not be with us anymore. Don't be another. 



I know that comfort you're experiencing, the one that can only be described as the one on the bottom of a swimming pool. But it doesn't help you, it finishes you. If nobody knows you're alive, you aren't. Don't trade "just one more day" of that pseudo-comfort for tens of thousands of unexplored amazing ones.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/nk6aoq/
author:encouragemintx
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:6237
numComments:226
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True