title:
LOT: How to avoid getting a red light camera ticket.

content:
EDIT: I HAVE OFFICIALY RECEIVED MY FIRST THREAT ON REDDIT. THIS GUY MESSAGES ME AND SAID THAT HE FOUND ME AND WOULD SEE ME SOON. STAY CLASSY REDDIT.  The link is just to the guy that sent it. He sent the message in a private pm.

http://www.reddit.com/user/WhatAPieceOfShit___/submitted/ 

EDIT: ok people there seems to be people who don't get why I'm doing this, so ill explain it up here... I do not condone breaking the law. Pay attention when your driving. Don't run a red light. However, I have seen fines up to a thousand dollars for running a red light, that's rent money. That's food on the table. Im not trying to help people break the law or do it more often, I'm trying to help people not get robbed blind by our government.

Alright here it is people. I'm a cop. I think that tickets have turned into a way, for the most part, for the city/state to tax the citizens. That's not the role of a police officer. So ill give advice where I can on how to avoid getting them. A red light camera ticket. Prevention is best. If you know you are about to run a red light on accident, look away. Cover your face. Do whatever you can to make your face unrecognizable to the camera. The burden is on the court to prove that it is you. When you get the ticket (and you will) just state that there is not sufficient evidence to prove that it is you in the vehicle. (if your face is covered/blurred there is not) they will ask you who was in the vehicle. You do not have to tell them. The burden is on the court to prove your guilt, not for you to prove your innocence. Also another handy way is if your. Married and you and your spouse drive different cars, register the opposite spouse's name to each car. They issue the ticket to the registered owner. If your married and your spouse is the registered owner of the car you normally drive, you can just say that you are clearly not the registered owner and get out of it that way also.

If anyone has any other questions on how to get out of petty things like traffic tickets..let me know ill try to help

I'm a cop in California so I only know California law. Hope this might save someone a few hundred bucks.

EDIT: I can't believe I submitted this as lot instead of lpt. Stupid autocorrect...

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/o2391/
author:that_other_guy_
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1305
numComments:585
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True