title:
LPT: Before buying a pet, try taking a good look at pictures of the grown up animal online. Baby animals trigger a nurturing response which is lost when they get older, and is one of the reasons why people give up their pets.

content:
Now after lockdown it seems we hear more and more about people giving back their "lockdown puppy", but this is actually something that has been happening for a long time.

Baby animals, humans as well as cats, dogs, etc., follow something that is called the "Kindchenschema". It consists of big heads, big eyes, small limbs and generally things that we find cute. This has evolved in Biology to increase the activity in a certain brain region, leading to a nurturing response in grown up individuals.
Puppies and kittens also follow the Kindchenschema, and therefore also trigger this response. 
Many people love puppies/kittens because they are cute, and due to this biological/psychological effect, we get the urge to care for them. However, this "Kindchenschema" disappears as the animal ages, and with it our response to it. This can lead to people suddenly not wanting to care for a pet anymore.

Therefore, before buying a puppy/kitten, go look at grown-up versions of your pet/breed of choice, and think about if you want to care for that as well. If you feel like you just want a puppy, but don't feel like you want the grown-up version, it might be better to not get the pet.
If you are unsure whether you want the grown-up version, chance is that, after having cared for a pet for so long, you might feel even more aversed to it when they grow up.

Please, always make sure you have the time and love for your pet, at all stages in it's life!

Here a link to the unfortunately very short Wikipedia article on the [Kindchenschema](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cuteness)

Edit: Short edit after waking up, for two points
1: My family has an amazing (grown up) dog and I wouldn't give her up for the world. She is the most precious, beautiful, intelligent, amazing creature out there and I love her so much. It's true many pet owners love their pets even when they are grown up, but taking a look at how many animals there are in shelters, it's obviously that that is not everyone.
2: As people have pointed out, before buying adopting is definitely the better option! We got our first dog from a farm, after she was found by them on the street and would've been euthanised, and there were never any regrets. I miss her so much.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/o243i6/
author:-momi
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:2210
numComments:182
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True