title:
LPT If your boss fires you, do not fire back with, "I quit!"

content:
If  you quit your job, you often cannot collect unemployment (which is meant to tide you over until you acquire new employment). Instead, apply for unemployment; worst case you'll be denied, but you may be approved.  Check your local laws to know if you qualify based on the conditions of  your termination. Also, if you're concerned/think that you may be  entitled to a wrongful termination suit, *keep your mouth shut* instead of firing back with indignation, no matter how angry you are.

Too upset to not keep your mouth shut? Remember there are other avenues to,  "get back," at crappy employers. Report OSHA/workplace safety  violations, improper waste disposal, and other issues that can have legal ramifications for them, making sure to do so through the proper  channels. Hold the company responsible for their actions *without giving them leave to take legal action against you or prevent dispersal any wages/unemployment you may be due.* Not only is it satisfying, but you'll hopefully be making life better long-term for future employees of that company.

Edit: No one is saying to wait to be fired if you're in a toxic work environment; this is solely regarding scenarios where you're being fired and had not been planning to quit, had not put in your notice, etc. If you need to leave you job for your mental or physical health, do it. Advocate for yourself.

Don't lie if reporting a company to authorities about workplace safety violations and other such issues. Only file reports if they're true.

Not all places of employment write up termination paperwork prior to firing employees; ask for the conditions of your termination in writing (and know if you have a right to have this provided based on where you are).

To those in the comments whining about this being popular in TV/movies: yes, yes it is. It's meant to be a display of empowerment to the person quitting, *which can and has influenced people to make this poor decision.* I have personally known a couple of people who have done this and it bit them in the ass.

*Check your local laws* to know if you can file for unemployment benefits if you quit; there are some circumstances where you can, but this varies by area. Also know your local recording laws if you feel you'll need evidence on your side when you leave your post either from being terminated or quitting.

Unemployment benefits are not solely for those who have been laid off; terms of unemployment benefits vary by location, so do your homework.

TL;DR: don't be influenced to make poor choices when it comes to leaving your place of work; do your homework, know your local laws, etc.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/odd3u7/
author:LuvAPup
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:27555
numComments:1467
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True