title:
LPT: Feeding a dog who is not interested in eating. Let him/her do tricks (sit, ..) and give the food as a treat. Most of them are conditioned to eat the food, even when they are not hungry.

content:
One of my dogs has spleen cancer. She is on pain medication and is enjoying the last weeks that she has. Running around, barking at people and sheep and of course: a lot of love and kuddels. 

(&gt; Im not keeping her alive for my sake. My vet said, he can’t put her down with clear conscience. She is agile and fit, running around barking and even jumps in the trunk without a problem) 

But the biggest issue, is food. She isn’t really into it. I tried different brands, dry, wet. Everything you can think of.… 
I mean she would still go for a slice of pizza, but boring dog food? 

No interested. 

My vet gave my a tip that I want to share:
Let them do tricks and give the normal, dry food as a treat. Almost every dog is taking the treat after they did the trick. 

Takes time, but your dog isn’t starving.

Edit/Update:
The tumor had in April already the size of a honeydew melon (her weight before was 22kg/48lbs) 
No idea how big it is now - but her stomach isn’t able to handle a full sized meal anymore. She starts eating, going for a quick restroom break and then finishes. 

I really have to be careful about the portion sizes and everything that she likes, she would eat until she throws up. 

And than there are days where she is not eating at all. But the ‘trick treat’ works quite good. 

And of course I try every food that she likes on those days. But if I start with that stuff as ‘normal food’ I have no backup plan after that. 

So she gets treats, catfood, dogfood, human food. Just trying to get calories in her tummy. 

But to keep a routine for the others (i have another dog and a third on the weekend (dog from my BF)) I need to stick to some kind of routine. 

And your suggestions (&gt; the muffins sound great btw) is something that I will try :) 


Thanks for all the replies and thoughts 🥰

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/ojddp8/
author:kleinmona
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:7048
numComments:159
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True