title:
YSK: if you take extra time in a drive thru, the cashier(s) will often get in trouble for it.

content:
Why YSK: Most drive thrus have timers inside. Depending on the store, they are often unreasonable and impossible to maintain, to "promote more productivity".

In reality, this means that customers who read the menu, don't pull away fast enough, or generally spend more than 90 seconds (total) in the drive thru, can be a cause of a lot of stress on cashiers. 

As anyone who's worked customer service can tell you, managers often make life much harder. This standard was a huge problem when I worked a drive thru a few years ago. Threats of being written up or fired over a car that took two minutes to leave the store from the time it pulled to the speaker is ridiculous, but sadly also a daily occurrence. And the poor customer who just needed to read the menu has no idea that maybe *they* were the straw that broke the camel's back and lost that person their job.

What you can do: if you don't know what you want, go inside if you're able. They'll be trying to get your food almost as quickly, but they won't get in trouble. You'll also have a much easier time making special requests or instructions. 

If you really can't go inside, look it up. Figure out what you want before arriving. Streamlining the process will come back around when all the employees love you for making their jobs easier.

And, please, don't verbally abuse the cashiers like every other customer. You're not above them. If you want to be treated like royalty, fast food isn't the place the do it.

EDIT: A lot of the comments seem to be about this similar point. No, none of this is the customer's responsibility. Yes, it's a horribly flawed system. Still, that doesn't stop that cashier from learning what an anxiety attack is at their first job.

Double edit: I love how polarizing the comments are. If your response is "not my problem" or "stop blaming the customers for awful management" it's very clear you've never been in that position. If it was as simple as saying something the problem wouldn't exist in the first place. I don't *want* to blame the customers, but unfortunately they're the only variable with the power to make life easier on that poor kid inside who thinks life is gonna be horrible because jobs are like this. So if you have any amount of empathy, your response should be "okay, I'll take thirty seconds to be kind" rather than "how dare they inconvenience *me* when I'm *paying* to go to *their* establishment".

For reference, I've been at Wendy's and El Pollo Loco. Had a friend at burger kind who I'd talk about this with and he had the same experience.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/osf2wz/
author:swagmain
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:11791
numComments:1199
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True