title:
LPT: If you’re feeling sad or struggling with depression, you don’t need a dog to go to a dog park. Find a park near by and just hang out by yourself. I promise it’ll make you feel better, if only for a brief moment in time.

content:
Backstory: I, like many others, got a dog over quarantine. I was depressed and unemployed. Could barely get off the couch. It was easily the best decision I’ve ever made in my life. 

At this point in my life, I basically live at dog parks. 

No matter how bad of a day I’m having, I love taking my little dude to the park and seeing him run around with all the other doggos. As an added bonus, I get to play with everyone else’s dog too. 

Now, you might be thinking, “Yeah, great ideas, but I’ll feel weird doing that.”

I’ll dispel that notation for you with a few points. 

1. No one will give a shit: People are so wrapped up in their own lives, they probably won’t notice. If they do, they’ll probably think it’s cool and strike up a conversation (more on this in a minute.)

2. If you’re starved for social interaction and wanting to find someone to talk to but don’t know how to meet strangers, dogs are the best conversational engineers. The conversations are templated and generally ephemeral. Most people are only there for 30 minutes to an hour. But, they can be long and in depth.

3. This one is exclusively for the ladies: If you’re looking to meet a responsible person that is wanting to be in a committed relationship…I promise you, they’re all at the dog park, loving and caring for their precious furry friends instead of themselves. 

Note: This doesn’t mean go to a dog park and start shamelessly hitting on people. THEN you would be weird. Go for you (and the doggos), not anyone else.

If you’ve gotten this far, you’re already probably sold on the idea. But, you might be thinking, I don’t want to talk to anyone. I just want to play with doggos. 

Even better. 

Get yourself a book, a pair of sunglasses, and headphones (wired ones work best), sit your booty down on a bench and just hang out. 

If someone does come up and talk to you, have no fear, I have a conversation roadmap all laid out for you. 

Dog Owner: Hey, which dog is yours?

You: Oh, funny story. I actually don’t have a dog. I’m considering getting a dog and wanted to come to the dog park to see how each breed interacts with other dogs so I can find the one with a personality and temperament that best fits my lifestyle.

Note: you could use this as an opportunity to destigmatized mental health issues by acknowledging you’re not feeling well and needed a reset, but I digress. 

Now, if there is one thing I’ve learned about dog park people, it’s that they never shut up about their dogs. That’s all they talk about. I have known people for years and never actually gotten their names before as we exclusively talk about our dogs. 

They will tell you everything they like and dislike about their dogs and very weird mannerism they exhibit. They’ll also give you unsolicited advice on whether you should get the same type of dog they have. 

All you gotta do is sit back and let them wear themselves out. 

With all that said, If you’re in a crisis and you need to talk to someone, please don’t go to the dog park. Call your doctor. If it is an emergency, please call the National Suicide Hotline at 1-800-273-8255.

I hope all this helps. ❤️


———————————————

Edit: Didn’t realize how polarizing of a topic this would be when I posted it. 

Dog parks are not these hallowed grounds. There’s no one on guard and no one watching the dogs or making sure that everyone in the dog park has a dog. 

A lot of the time, these parks are owned and cared for by local governments. It’s a fucking free for all. 

It’s a field of wood chips with a gate around it. No one is stealing dogs at a dog park and no one will suspect that you’re going to steal their dog right in front of them. 

No one is going to call the police on you for being in a public park minding your own business. 

Rules will be posted at the front gate and often times, they say that no children under 16 should be left unattended. That’s basically it.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/ospsta/
author:Putin_inyoFace
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1040
numComments:77
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True