title:
YSK: Most women cannot orgasm from penetration alone. It does not make you less of a man for letting her get off

content:
Why YSK: Being able to give your partner better sexual pleasures can be a great thing for the both of you.

Fingering, mouth, sex toys,  and so on. See what works best for her. If anything, it makes you more of a man to think about what she needs and desires instead of only focusing on yourself. 

https://www.nbcnews.com/better/lifestyle/orgasm-gap-why-it-exists-what-women-can-do-about-ncna983311

https://metro.co.uk/2017/09/02/how-many-times-do-women-need-to-explain-that-penetration-isnt-everything-before-everyone-gets-it-6896506/

Many women are afraid of bruising men's ego's, them taking it violently, etc. So they take mediocre or even bad sex over telling them.

The penis to a lot of women is secondary, while the foreplay tends to be the main event. Not saying that the penis isn't important, but it's just not as important as some men believe that it is.

Edit: I did not mean "letting her" as a bad thing. I'm a woman by the way. I just mean that "some" (not all men), think of having a woman having orgasms or doing extra stuff for her is extra work/a chore for "some" of them. Like, it's not something that they worry about as long as they get theirs.

It might seem like a cliche, but it's true. Communication is key. Listen to the sounds that they make during sex, ask them what they prefer after you've both had sex. Let your partner feel comfortable enough to share something like that with what they don't like and what they do like.

Each person is different, what one person might like during sex, another person might not.

Some people have lower sex drive as well. That's a thing that happens. Women and men can both have a low sex drive. Some people have average, low, or high sex drive. So even if they don't have an orgasm even after everything you've done to help them try and have one, it might just be that they have a low sex drive as well.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/ou76ji/
author:Snarkyandcosy
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:15848
numComments:934
isOver18:True
hasPostBody:True