title:
You should Know There's ongoing social unrest in Hungary, and the media is being actively censored

content:
   You should know that ever since the last elections, the current ruling party in Hungary has been attacking the education system, isolating the country politically, and systematically taking over the media (along with nationalizing other parts of industry). This has gone almost entirely unreported, and will likely continue to be underreported - very few Hungarians speak English well, especially relatively to other European countries where English is mandatory (it isn't here).

   Since they swept elections back in May of 2010 the Fidesz party, led by Viktor Orban (current Prime Minister) have done everything they can to suppress political opposition, most egregiously in that they replaced the individuals in charge of running the major media companies here with government approved cronies. People are afraid to speak against it for fear of arrest or suppression, a relic of the Soviet days - people remember the secret police. To give you some idea of what is happening, one of the first things they did when they took power was rename the country itself to Hungary - from the Republic of Hungary.

   Symbolic, but it says a lot. What isn't outright censored is altered, for instance a recent protest against the government that was additionally aimed at the EU. The way state media reported it, "pro-government" protestors had turned out to support the PM as he "battles" the EU. In reality it was a protest against *both* him and the EU, but with very little attention on 
Hungary, small misinformation changes like this are slipping away. Education has also been almost completely marginalized. In Hungary, everyone does 12 years of schooling, but you can begin high school early and do as much as 6 or 8 years of it, skipping grades to do more intense work (effectively) if you qualify for it with your test scores. When I was coming up (not that long ago) it was relatively easy to do 6 years (rather than the standard 4) and harder but not impossible to do 8. Now it's almost impossible to get into the 6 year programs, due to the changes they've made to the education system. More than that, though, they've also changed how the university system works. Previously, schools were allowed to give a certain number of their applicants free ride scholarships, based on having high test scores. For instance you may have( this is only an example and not exact numbers) 1,000 applicants and 400 would get free rides. Under the new changes, that has shrunk to 100 or less on average. It's having a devasting effect and my friends and others are facing having to immigrate just to get an education.

   Hungary is in a bad way and the discontent is growing, to the extent that I fear I will see my country break down into revolution soon, it is that bad and people are that angry. I'm writing this because I hope I can shine some attention on what is going on. Ask me anything. I've included some links below, but be mindful that most news out of Hungary isn't that reliable.

 http://uk.reuters.com/article/2011/12/23/uk-hungary-protest-idUKTRE7BM0KM20111223
http://digitaljournal.com/article/318265
 http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-17/hungarian-writer-konrad-calls-for-orban-resignation-faz-says.html
 http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MUk_QF5octg
 http://thecontrarianhungarian.wordpress.com/2011/11/17/controversial-educational-reform-to-be-passed-in-hungary/


url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/oui8l/
author:hunfreedom
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:1084
numComments:78
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True