title:
YSK: Flushable wipes are NOT good/safe for your plumbing system. It is 100% a lie

content:
Plumber here, yes it's true.

Unfortunately for consumers, marketers specialize in the one skill they share with lawyers and salespeople; lying.


Turns out there's actually no regulation on claims on package such as "Flushable Wipes" (Hell they're boldly advertised and displayed as such) or "World's Best Dildo" for that matter.


Why ysk: Wipes (or excessive TP, paper towels)... really anything **except** turds, moderate TP or severely eviscerated food waste via garburator... should NOT be flushed down any drains.


The rule most people I encounter prescribe is "out of sight out of mind"... which is a toxic mentality... often literally. 


If your toilet drains real slow, that's more than often the reason.

Call a plumber to come snake your drain and immediately stop flushing wipes and other crap besides poop and TP.  Provided your plumbing doesn't suck, you should almost never get clogs or slow draining in a modern plumbing system. If it does suck, getting your piping redone correctly up to your main stack can drastically improve that.


Even if it doesn't clog your drains it makes it's way to the water treatment plant and can often clog and impede their pipes and equipment.


Instead, do what old age homes do in their lobby bathrooms: put little trashcans with secure lids with a bag under the sink or some out of the way location and change it often.


Or just get a bidet. Give your brown eyed monster the proper bath it needs.


EDIT: Thank you for the awards kind strangers!

EDIT 2: For all those asking for a bidet recommendation there is no one right answer. They are life changing but to get the bang for your buck you need to take some time to educate yourself on the different varieties and choose one that best suits you. Read reviews and try to find ones that are listed at multiple sites/stores. Start by googling 'types of bidets' do a bit of reading and go from there.

Also, if you're commenting "they technically ARE flushable they'll just cause a clog so it's not really a lie."


You aren't being clever. In fact, you're just defending dishonest manipulation of truth and in order to change the way things are marketed we need to stop defending like this.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/ov1b8o/
author:KragBru-
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:15923
numComments:618
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True