title:
YSK: Taking the time to relearn how to properly care for your body while performing our day to day routines will save you money and a lot of pain in the future

content:
Why YSK: Our bodies have an amazing capacity to heal, but incorrectly handling day to day tasks can cause wear and tear leading to irreparable damage. Sometimes not even surgery can fix the damage.

I'm going to list below some tips that I never properly learned while growing up. Now I have to deal with the consequences because somethings can't be fixed. I encourage you to look through the list because I had no idea until I started having issues:

Dental care: There are proper ways to brush your teeth. Brushing your teeth too hard, too long or with a hard brush scrapes off enamel and makes your gums recede. You might not notice because it happens slowly overtime. But one day your roots will be exposed and your teeth will be permanently yellow (the dentin under your enamel is yellowish brown). This is expensive to fix with gum grafts and eventually dentures. Seriously. Get an electric tooth brush or a very soft/soft tooth brush. DO NOT buy a 'hard' toothbrush.

[Source](https://www.everydayhealth.com/hs/sensitive-teeth/brush-teeth-too-hard/)

Blowing your nose: There is also a proper way to blow your nose. You need to blow gently and NEVER completely compress one nostril. The mucus can't go out the closed nostril obviously, so all you're doing is forcing it through your Eustachian tube and your middle ear. This causes ear infections which slowly degrade your hearing overtime. The middle ear is behind your ear drum and can't be drained through your ear canal (unless your ear drum bursts). Also depending on the pathogen this can potentially be life threatening being near your eyes and brain.

[Source](https://wexnermedical.osu.edu/blog/3-risks-of-blowing-your-nose-too-hard)

Picking/cleaning your nose: Don't be too rough 'picking your nose' either with your fingers or kleenex. The skin in your nostrils is thin and can be permenently damaged causing frequent nose bleeds. I pretty much think about a kleenex and my nose starts bleeding. To my knowledge the only way to fix this issue is to have the area cauterized because I've worn the tissue down too far to heal.

[Sauce](https://www.medhealthdaily.com/nasal-cauterization/)

Posture and muscle instabilities: If you workout or are in a physically taxing job you can build imbalances in your muscles. In my case I worked my chest and biceps more than my back and had daily back pain for 4-5 years before I realized what was going on. I had 'Upper Cross Syndrome' where my chest was way tighter than my back muscles. The picture on this source has a better explanation but once I started working my back more all of my back pain went away. Edit: I'm going to elaborate if you have this syndrome: your butt should not stick out when you stand. Curl your hips forward a bit and make sure your palms of you hands are facing in front of you not behind. Then look straight forward. That is a healthy posture. Now just get into the routine of reminding yourself constantly to correct yourself if you stop holding that position. 

[Source](https://www.builtlean.com/upper-lower-cross-syndrome/) 

This is an addition from u/kutsen39:
"I would also like to say, when you pick something (heavy, like a box or something) up off the ground, don't bend at the waist, bend at the knees and stick your ass out (which is basically a squat with good form)." 

Seriously: ONE back injury can ruin your life. From picking up a damn box. This is one of the most important in my opinion.  Lift with your legs while your back is arched. If you can't lift it like that you need a tool or help. It isn't worth changing the quality of your life potentially long term. This actually happened to my dad. Threw his back out in a factory, was on disability the rest of his life and died of obesity. 

Wear sunscreen especially if you're exposed to the sun for more than an hour a day... Yes, even if its overcast outside. Its annoying but so is dying from cancer.

[Do I really need a source for this?](https://www.fda.gov/drugs/understanding-over-counter-medicines/sunscreen-how-help-protect-your-skin-sun)

Honorable mention: Most people don't need to shampoo your hair daily. It only wastes money and dries your hair out. If you switch from daily shampooing to once every other day it takes a bit for your scalp to adjust and lower oil production but it is worth it in the long run. Also u/ligerdrag20 pointed out that some people shouldn't brush their hair while wet but it depends on your hair type! If you're concerned do a bit of research for your hair. 

[Source](https://www.webmd.com/beauty/features/how-often-wash-hair#1)

Alright that is all I can think of right now. If anyone wants to add or dispute any of these points please let me know and I'll correct it.

Edit: sorry im on nights rn so I was asleep and updating this with all of these great ideas is like taking care of a child haha 

This comment is from u/mo_jack and he's damn right:

"One thing I would add is to actively take part in your health. In addition to diet &amp; exercise, see your doctor when things don't feel right, especially if it's gone on for a prolonged period of time. Have discussions with your doctors, with actual two-way communication. Don't just sit there like a bump on a log. This is your one &amp; only life and you will have to live (or not live) with the consequences. Get second opinions, especially if you are in a country with for-profit healthcare. If you are groggy, drugged up or sleep deprived because of your condition, get someone to go with you."

Other great ideas: get a squatty potty and don't push hard while poopin'. If you can't get it out wait a while, do some exercise to stimulate your bowels, or do a few body weight squats in place. Sometimes that can help move things along but if it's stuck fleet enemas are godsends. If an enema doesn't get it out consider going to the ER. If you ever have this happen and try to fix it yourself: clip your fingernails and clean your hands thoroughly before going fishing in your bung you crazy bastards.

Taking a multivitamin is a great idea. A good example is magnesium: magnesium is the side of the calcium activation of muscle fibers. Calcium binds and activates muscles and magnesium binds to remove calcium. That's why Epsom salt baths are so relaxing: they're largely magnesium salts and literally help your muscles relax. I personally suggest N-acetyl-cysteine as a supplement but as with anything I highly suggest you do your research and not take my advice. It promotes glutathione production which is a strong intracellular antioxidant. From what I've read: taken before drinking alcohol it reduces damage to your liver and before amphetamines it reduces neurotoxicity. It's also good for your lungs. But again do your own research and don't trust internet strangers with your health.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/ovlf8x/
author:felorius
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:11343
numComments:358
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True