title:
YSK: Your apartment or house has filters. And they NEED to be changed regularly.

content:
YSK: Most modern apartments and homes have a variety of air filters that need cleaned or changed regularly. Why YSK: Dirty filters can cost you money, make things uncomfortable, or simply cause machines to fail/suck. Air conditioner not cooling well? Check the front filter (on window unit) or the HVAC unit itself. Fridge a bit smelly? Check to see if it has an air filter. Fan or portable heater not blowing well? Check for a filter. Vacuum no longer very good at sucking? Wash the filters (there are usually 2-3). 

Clogged filters cause the machine to run harder demanding more electricity and reducing the functionality. Checking on the filter(s) is one of the cheapest ways to get appliances or machines back in business. 

Most machines moving air around have air filters. Do a scan of the following and either replace or wash the filter. if washing, make sure it is completely dry before putting back in. Keep in mind some are designed to be wash (like vacuum filters) while others are meant to be thrown out and replaced (HVAC filters). Take a look at these to start:

- cabin air filter in car, sometimes behind the glove box. google for details. filter is cheap at auto store. 
- vacuum filters. this one is huge. modern bagless vacuums are notorious for clogged filters and a smelly and weak vacuum experience. I switched to bagged and am never going back. no mess. no cleaning filters. 
- filters on air conditioners, portable heaters, and any other heating or cooling units. changing or washing these can save you serious money. and in the case of portable heaters, greatly reduce your risk of fire (dust bunnies on heating coils are a terrible combo) 
- Dryer lint screen/filter. Your clothes will dry 10 times quicker if you have never touched this and you will also greatly reduce your risk for fire. 
- over stove top filters/under microwave filters. I promise you they are gunky and nasty. soak those bad boys in some dish soap. These are likey metal and meant to be washed. 

You may find that some of these don't have a filter. Might be a good opportunity to Google to see if it actually in fact needs one. 

Feel free to comment others not on my initial list! Wishing you all cleaner indoor air and better working machines!

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/ox99ex/
author:inaclimatecrisis
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:1526
numComments:45
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True