title:
LPT: When engaging someone expressing big emotions, don't waste your time arguing/reasoning with the person. First listen, then summarize back to them what they said. Then identify and acknowledge their emotions. This is how you earn trust and their willingness to listen to your point of view.

content:
What are charged emotions? Anything laced with anger, frustration, anxiety, arrogance, among other feelings. When people are experiencing these big emotions, their primary goal is usually validation that they are right. So wouldn't it backfire if you were to simply state your opinion?

But typically that's how interactions take place, where one person is feeling big emotions, and the other person gets overwhelmed and reactively pushes back by taking an equally hard line stance. Nothing but yelling, anger, and frustration comes from these types of engagement, and because no learning or shared agreement takes place, it becomes a near-total waste of time.

The basis of conversation is dialogue. A dialogue takes place when two or more people are able to reflect when they talk to others. But when people are emotionally charged, it's almost impossible for them to reflect on what they say or how they feel. Instead, when challenged, they double down on their point of view, and become even more abrasive. The fallout from this is a breakdown of trust.

Trust is the basis of human relationships. Without it, words are meaningless. So how to do you create trust? You start first by listening intently to what the other person is saying. Then restate their words in summary form to confirm that you understood what they are saying. They will confirm or correct your point of view. Then they will probably continue on talking and maybe even repeating what they have already said. That's ok. Oftentimes when people are feeling big emotions, they simply want to be heard and acknowledged.

Your job here is not to get them to understand your point of view. Your point of view doesn't matter if they don't trust you. And you build trust by becoming a doormat for the other person to unload their feelings. (If you can't do this yet, that's fine. Just walk away and try in the future when you feel you can do it). Once a person feels heard, you will notice that they visibly calm down. Dialogue doesn't easily happen unless people are able to be calm.

Once they have confirmed that you understand their story, you can begin to identify the feelings that they are feeling. State it back to them. "It seems like you are really angry that I did that," or "It seems like you are feeling a lot of anxiety about the future." Now is not the time for you to talk other than identifying their emotions. Let them sit with the silence if they need to, until they can confirm or deny the feeling you pointed out. What matters here is the conversation is turning inward, and they are reflecting on their words and their feelings. You aren't there to deny or correct anything. You are there to listen, acknowledge, and validate. Over time, you will earn their trust. And trust is fundamental for all human interactions.

Once they trust you, you may be able to share your point of view and they might be able to listen to it, even if it is different from their own. Now you've started a dialogue based on empathy. And this is how relationships become transformative.

Edit: One additional point, as some people mentioned this in comments: this form of engagement does not work if you look at it like a passive aggressive "technique" to get what you want from another person. Unless you are genuinely committed to hearing out another person *without* having to have your own point of view validated in return, then this will come off as a manipulative exercise. Better to walk away from the conversation than create this dynamic.

Edit 2: More of an add on to edit 1. Words make up an extremely tiny portion of what a person remembers in a conversation. Your tone of voice, and primarily the SPIRIT underlying your words is what gets communicated. So for those repulsed by this as some sort of customer service technique, you have a point, and this can be used by someone to try to manipulate others. But that is not the point not the spirit here so do not get derailed. The spirit here is empathy and genuine enriching relationship with others. If you operate from a place of care and with your only goal being to encourage and uplift your friend, it's not likely they will accuse you of being manipulating.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/p2nib6/
author:gomi-panda
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:20189
numComments:524
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True