title:
LPT: If you're a quiet, "sensitive" kid who feels socially marginalized, be aware that often teachers and parents encourage your behavior because it makes you easier for them to manage. But this is not always to your benefit, because they may be keeping you from learning valuable social skills.

content:
Skills like: learning to stand up for yourself, how to set good boundaries and back them up, how to stop being a people pleaser, and/or how to tell the difference between being genuinely bullied and just being teased by other kids that expect you to join in the fun.

I realize this can be a survival skill for people with abusive parents, so there might not be much you can do about it now, but keep in mind what is happening. 

Don't become a compulsive people-pleaser or someone who can't say no. Don't become someone who is too timid or anxious to initiate social interactions with others. 

Don't spend your life doing everything you can to avoid conflict, there is nothing wrong with conflict, even and especially with those you love. It's all about how you manage it. 

And don't become married to the idea that being "sensitive" makes you super special and empathic. It is not just possible, but preferable, to build up a thicker skin AND be a good and kind person to others. 

These skills are important to making friends, but they will become super important for your emotional survival in the adult world or work and having your own family.

Parents and teachers with your special, fragile, sensitive kids around - are you really doing the right thing by protecting them from everything and telling them they are great and everyone else out there having fun, having friends, and horsing around like kids should are the defective ones? Let kids be kids.

EDIT: No one has had an issue with this, but I would like to add that teachers and parents rarely do this out of an overt, self-serving need. When this does happen, it's because the parents and teachers are just so happy to have a non-disruptive kid around. Having a kid who doesn't yell, break things, get into fights, etc. is a much-coveted thing and parents will be praised for raising such a child. My point is that, sometimes, it's OK to let kids yell, and break things, and tease each other playfully, and get into (non-physical) fights. In fact, it can be really good for them. 

Also, this LPT is only for people who feel socially marginalized because of their quieter nature. Plenty of people are this way and could not be happier in life. There is nothing inherently wrong with it. They may have plenty of friends, and get along great at work. They may have very few friends, but that is by choice. All of this is fine.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/p58p8d/
author:zazzlekdazzle
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:5326
numComments:177
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True