title:
YSK that you don't have to be on the verge of suicide to call a Suicide hotline

content:
Why YSK: 
There is the stigma around suicide prevention that, you must be practically on the brink of death in order to call the suicide hotline. But the fact is they want you to call if you're even having thoughts about it. I called a friend who works at a hospital. And before anyone answered the phone it was "hang up and dial 911 for emergencies, press 2 if you're having thoughts about suicide... etc." 

You don't have to be almost dead to get help. You don't have to wait till the pain is no longer bearable before you consider having some else help you bear that load. You don't even have to bear the thought of suicide alone. Even if it crosses your mind for any reason, call them. It's free. They aren't going to charge you. And it's always better to Start to develop the relationship sooner, so you can be more confident in the help you'll get. And you don't have to call the same line every time, if you need to just speak to someone else, or you're embarrassed, you can call privately or use a throwaway phone paid with cash if it's really bad. But the point is, you don't have to wait till you're really hurting. 

And it's never too late. If you're reading this, it's not too late. You have the time, and you always will. Because nothing is more important than your life. If you're on here, and need help, then you should just call right now. 

**BIG EDIT:** A lot of people have mentioned how they've had bad experience with the hotline, maybe population control, etc. Please know that a hotline is not the only resource at your immediate grasps. There are Facebook groups, even reddit groups that will gladly take you in and speak with you. People in there are willing to create a friendship that could outlast anything a local hotline could. But also, you don't have to call the same hotline if you have had a bad experience. But please don't judge one whole entity based on your experience with one person. **There are people who just want to see the world burn, and then there are those who will attempt to burn the world.**

Tldr: You don't have to wait. You can be anonymous if you need. Just don't wait till it's really bad. But it's never too late. Also, look at other resources like Facebook or telegram groups.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/pgl6dt/
author:Reach_Greatness
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:1766
numComments:65
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True