title:
YSK a lot of the volunteer abroad companies are scams.

content:
There are many companies that talk about how you can go to South America, Asia, and even Hawaii to help out but the truth is that they’re just money grabs for middle class young adults. 

Usually the programs have you pay them for “lodging and meals” but if you were to go to the place on your own you could make do for cheaper. 

On top of that the stuff you’re “helping” the locals with are things that they could be getting paid for or don’t need.

These opportunities rely on you to tell friends and family that you are going to volunteer and to help you by donating when in reality you’re just going on vacation. 

I went to a meeting today in my college with a company that talks about volunteering abroad. I’ve wanted to travel and even if I had to help out it didn’t seem like a bad way to do it. However the second slide was a 2 minute video of people doing some of the funnest things ever like bungee jumping, scuba diving, building bamboo rafts, seeing animals, and of course hanging out with people of a different color. 

They then tried to mention how i would be helping out and some of the ways were planting trees, doing some hikes, having discussions about the locals problems, talking about elephants, and teaching English for 2 days to some students. So in reality a lot of talking and doing a bunch of fun things near locals. 

Why YSK 
A lot of people might spend their money thinking that it’s worth it since you’re gonna be helping and having fun. The reality is you’re just going on vacation. If you want to go there plan a vacation on your own that’s cheaper. Or at-least make sure that if you’re gonna help out it is an volunteering company and that it shows in the things you will be doing there. 

Also keep it in mind so your friends and family don’t fall into this trap and if they still insist on going then don’t help them financially and have them get a job to pay for their vacation. Because that’s what it is. A vacation.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/plbpxe/
author:Yinelkis15
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:5360
numComments:260
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True