title:
LPT: Here's some advice my dad gave me: If you want to find out for yourself if that girl is right for you, plan a long holiday with her

content:
DISCLAIMER BEFORE READING: Apologies if this is the wrong time. Being someone who’s not American, I had little to no idea about the Gabby Petito case

(Also: STOP LEAVING ROAD TRIP COMMENTS)

Travelling is a good way to get a glimpse of what living with her will be like: You'll be sharing a room, planning the itinerary, and learning how to negotiate and discuss with her when deciding what to do and where to go. You'll see all the bad and good habits she may have.

Is she street smart? Does she know how to keep herself safe in a foreign land? What if things go south; Does she have a plan B of where to go and what to do? How would you two solve problems together? What if you want to stay in a resort but she wants to stay in a motel? How prepared is she when exploring the unknown with you? These are all good qualities a life partner should have

Edit: some of the replies are saying that I’m somehow a bit misogynistic or “borderline” incel. 

No, I’m not at all suggesting that women are anymore incapable or incompetent than men. Between my two parents, my mother is the one who’s more educated.

I’m just simply sharing something my father told me. So as a guy I said this from my perspective. You can gender-swap everything here and it will still remain valid

Edit 2: some people are also questioning the “street-smart” part, saying it’s somewhat patronising. I admit I worded it wrongly.

Simply put, I left that one in there because being street-smart is something that *ANY* functioning adult should have.

Being street smart when it comes to travelling OVERSEAS is a lot different and scarier than when you’re living in a country that you’re familiar with. What I meant to say was:

Adjusting to a foreign land is a sign of being able to adapt well. That’s it

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/psiecl/
author:dontknowwhattodoat18
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:21916
numComments:1350
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True