title:
Lpt: How to notify next of kin, after a loved ones death.

content:
I am by no means an expert at this, but as a large metropolitan 911 paramedic I’ve notified next of kin countless times in my career. I’m directing this LPT at all medical providers that might have to do this in the hopes of generating discussion around how to help our communities process grief. 

First realize that this isn’t about you, and your roll if done correctly, won’t be remembered. All people process grief differently. Severe grief itself, generally follows a denial, bargaining, anger, depression, acceptance, path. Where we come in as medical providers is the denial stage. For grief to process, people must accept what’s happened. State: I’m very sorry, ‘patients name’ has died or is dead. I prefer ‘died’ as it is direct and suggests immediacy. Dead seems too brutal. But that’s just me. As an advanced medical provider, I may have attempted resuscitation without success. I want the grieving person to know the effort of my self and my team in trying to keep death at bay. I ensure there is someone there for the closest relative(s) of the deceased. Close enough to be helpful but not be overwhelmed, themselves. I leave basic instructions for the next steps to bury their loved one. Then I ask if they have any questions I can answer for them. Years from now, when the grieving family member looks back, they won’t remember me, they’ll remember a tough time that they got through with help. A time they still carry inside themselves. If I can facilitate that to the utmost then I have provided a vital service to my community. Honesty, empathy, professionalism, and humanity. If there are other experiences or ideas I’d love to hear about them.

Edit: What a wonderful experience since posting this yesterday. Ive had some amazing conversations. During this time I’ve learned a few things. You can’t always do this approach. You need to tailor your actions to the needs of the grieving. Sometimes a phone call is what is needed. The wording can be changed depending on how close you are to the bereaved but it still has to be direct and to the point. Frequent updates about status are not always appreciated. And yes, the 5 stages of grief are an outdated approach. For sake of a shorter post I didn’t go in-depth with the grief process. I sincerely thank you all for participating. I’ve grown from this experience.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/ptttza/
author:Medic7002
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:9985
numComments:539
isOver18:True
hasPostBody:True