title:
YSK catalytic converter thieves are targeting specific models of cars (especially the Prius). Toyota is so back-ordered on catalysts it may take over a month to replace a stolen one, while costing you over $1,000. But theft can be deterred by installing an anti-theft catalytic converter shield.

content:
Why YSK: Catalytic converter theft is so rampant that catalysts for the most commonly targeted cars (all models of the Toyota Prius) are severely back-ordered by a month or more, made worse by world-wide supply chain complications. They are also very expensive to replace. Your car isn't legal to drive if the catalyst has been cut out. But you should know that catalyst theft can be easily deterred by installing a catalytic converter shield that makes them much harder to cut out.

___

Catalytic converters (which reduce various pollutants in car exhaust) are being cut out of parked cars using power tools so that the tiny quantities of platinum in them can be extracted by scrappers. A friend of mine had his catalytic converter stolen out of his Prius yesterday, and when he took his car to the dealership to have this fixed, they told him that due to the rampant theft of these things (likely exacerbated by a stressed supply chain), particularly the ones for the Toyota Prius, catalysts were back-ordered and delayed by at least a month.

The thieves target a handful of models for this kind of raid. The Toyota Prius (all models and versions) and the Honda Element models are the most frequently targeted, along with the Toyota Tacoma, Tundra, and Sequoia. You can protect yourself by installing a catalytic converter shield. The cost of one of these things plus the labor to install it is far less cost and far less trouble than the cost of having your catalyst stolen.

I'm not here to promote any particular brand, so I'm not going to post a link; these are easy enough to find by doing a web search for "catalytic converter shield".

They are typically installed by having rivet nuts installed into various holes in the chassis (some of which may need to be drilled or widened), followed by being screwed in with tamper resistant screws. But since it isn't that hard to find bits for tamper-resistant screws (and thieves are likely to have such bits), I recommend going for brands that offer custom security screws, or buying custom security screws of your own.

Prevent regret. If you own one of the models that thieves target, install a catalytic converter shield. Do your part to put these thieves out of business.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/q2h961/
author:Berkamin
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:12207
numComments:832
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True