title:
LPT: if you live in a wealthy area that celebrates Halloween, buy food that can be handed out. Some people who are struggling to feed their kids take them to wealthy neighborhoods to trick or treat.

content:
I was just thinking back to Halloween’s as a kid. We lived in a relatively wealthy neighborhood and had a huge pecan tree in the front yard. After trick or treating some kids would ask my mom if they could take the pecans that had fallen from the tree (in fall the ground was often covered with pecans). She always said yes of course. After a few years my mom realized they were asking because the pecans were food. She noticed it was especially in the kids who didn’t have costumes or just had a hat on as a costume. 

So then every October she’d buy things like rice krispe treats to hand out to all the kids (still a treat but also more of a food than candy). And she’d also buy foods like ramen packets (or honestly go into our pantry and clean out all the nonperishables she bought but would never eat... she’s a bit of a hoarder) and hand those out to *the parents of kids who looked like they might need food or asked if they could have our pecans. 

I think this is a really good idea and it makes me smile thinking of my mom helping people. And it would make her happy to know other people were doing this too. :) it’s not an exclusive to wealthy neighborhoods LPT either I just know that’s where a lot of hungry kids are dropped off. 

Edit: I mildly regret posting this. This is a really nice memory. Please don’t pick it apart and criticize what my mom did. It wasn’t hurting anyone. My mom wasn’t dropping a can of beans in a kids candy bag. If they asked to pick up pecans or something she’d walk out to the parents (usually in a car) and offer some foods like it was adult trick or treating idk. Occasionally someone would decline and so what?

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/q6z6v5/
author:medstudenthowaway
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:3674
numComments:219
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True