title:
LPT: At railroad level crossings in the US, the “little blue sign” will save your life. The sign gives drivers who are stuck on the tracks a 1-800 number to call. Instead of calling 911, this number will directly contact a railroad dispatcher to stop oncoming trains.

content:
Next time you pass a railroad level crossing, look for the [“little blue sign.”](https://www.nprillinois.org/statehouse/2017-09-11/railroad-safety-look-for-the-blue-sign)

Edit: The sign is \~about 8" x 5".  It is located on the "Crossbuck," which is the traffic sign in the shape of an 'X' that says "Railroad Crossing." In most cases, the crossbuck will also have red flashing lights and a boom gate that drops when a train is nearby. If your crossbuck has red flashing lights, the blue sign is located directly below the set of red flashing lights.

Edit: Yes, you should obviously get out of your car to call the railroad dispatcher. In fact, you won't likely be able to see the sign if you are inside your car. So hop out, then look for the sign. A locomotive crashing into a vehicle can have significant damaging effects, throwing lots of debris in the vicinity that can injure you or others. Furthermore, even small impacts at high speeds can be very damaging for train passengers and crew.  **Imagine a train crashing into a 25-ton dump truck. The engineer is dead, and likely anyone else near the cab of the locomotive.**

Edit: You might be asking, "How do cars even get stuck on railroad tracks?" Keep in mind that "Stuck" is the keyword here. It's rare for a car to simply break down on a track. At crossings with gates, if you can believe it, people ignore warning bells and lights, drive onto the tracks and the gates come down and trap them. Of course, they could easily drive through the gates but most people panic and that's where they can't get the car going. Furthermore, many level crossings have an increase in height compared to the regular road surface. Therefore, there is not enough clearance for longer vehicles such as semi-trailers and limos. They can then become grounded on the 'hump.’

**Edit: For anyone that sees this 12 hours later, thanks for upvoting. I am just a lurker. Never had a post blow up like this. I hope I was able to pass along some helpful advice to you :)**

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/qhpx3o/
author:zarmril
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:26160
numComments:546
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True