title:
LPT: Never ask someone for their number. Give yours instead

content:
When you ask for a number, regardless of gender or orientation, you're putting someone on the spot.  There are pressures to respond one way or the other. Some will welcome the gesture, and some people won't. 

I have found the best way to avoid any awkwardness is to give your info, be it a phone number, snap, or any other form of communication you use. 

1) If they're interested, they'll reach out to you.  They also know they're not gonna get unwanted messages in the future from you if they don't.  It relieves pressure from the person you're interested in. 

2) If they're not interested, they won't contact you. It gives you confirmation that it's not a match, and you don't have to worry about it.  It saves you from worrying about why someone did or did not contact you after you reached out.

Back in my college days I would give my number out to girls I was interested in.  I knew if I received a reply they were at least curious. Sometimes it worked out, sometimes it fizzled out,  but it helped me on making sure that I wasn't wasting time with someone that clearly wasn't interested,  even if I didn't explicitly know it at the time.

For guys, I recommend this 100%.  For the ladies, there's nothing more flattering than you offering your contact info first if you're interested. It can be a huge confidence boost for some of us guys.

Be safe out there, be kind, and have fun!

Edit: Well this blew up. 

People, don't be a creeper and hand out your info to randos. I did this after establishing some sort of social connection, like chatting a couple times at the gym or the library, or after talking for 30 minutes or so at a party if it was a new acquaintance.

Edit 2:  Damn. Some of you are salty and toxic as fuck. There are some funny comments too. But dayum.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/qimmw9/
author:midkni
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:15458
numComments:875
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True