title:
YSK Caffeine might be making your life harder

content:
Why YSK: We tend to forget that caffeine is a psychoactive drug. 





Just like anything in life, there’s always a good side and a bad side. However, the problem is that using drugs such as caffeine that have the ability to affect the brain, we mess up our natural brain functions. This becomes a serious issue when we consume it daily. 

By doing that, we reach a level of dependence that legitimately makes us forget how we used to operate naturally before we abused them.



One of the worst side effects is sleep problems and that’s what I’m going to focus on in this post. 

To understand how caffeine makes us alert we need to understand how it affects adenosine.

Adenosine is a powerful type of molecule in our bodies and the build up of adenosine causes drowsiness which makes us sleep at night. 

Caffeine on the other hand is a stimulant and it works by inhibiting adenosine receptors which helps keep us alert. 



We should keep in mind that a lot of food and drinks contain caffeine. For example, coffee, tea, carbonated drinks such as coke, chocolate, energy drinks etc…

Moderation is key. Start by decreasing caffeine intake to a point where you can function normally without it. Then, consume it only when necessary. 
You’ll be shocked when you realize that you can live without using it daily : )

Oh and absolutely no caffeine at least 6 hours before bed!!!! 

Best of luck &lt;3

All about caffeine: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK223808/


———

EDIT 1: I’m so glad to hear other people’s experiences and how they are doing well with caffeine. Just to clarify though, I did mention that moderation is key. I did not dismiss the benefits of caffeine. I’m just reminding people that it is a drug after all. But we don’t think of it like that as much anymore since it’s the most used drug worldwide.

I am a caffeine consumer myself tried to quit but found that cycling works best for me. I just wanted to help people who got stuck like me and didn’t know why and share some science behind it. 

But if you find yourself happier and sleeping well with consuming caffeine daily then by all means listen to your body :)

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/ql5kv5/
author:Lethal_Dose_honey
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:10515
numComments:967
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True