title:
LPT: If you use a debit card for all your purchases, instead, open a rewards or cash back credit card and pay the balance in full every month

content:
This does two things for you:

1. It helps to establish credit. Most people *will* eventually need credit if they ever intend to buy a car or a house. Even if you’re the most fiscally responsible person you know, you likely won’t be able to make a large purchase without credit, unless you intend to pay the whole thing upfront. 

2. You’ll get rewards or cash back for spending money you already intended to spend. The important part here is money you **already intended to spend**. Don’t spend like crazy just because you’ll get reward points or cash back. You can quickly get in over your head and start paying tons of interest. 

The most important part of this tip is to make sure you pay your balance in full every month so that you don’t pay interest. If you’re getting 1.5% cash back, but have a 29.9% interest rate, you’re losing money. 

I’ve been paying exclusively with rewards and cash back cards pretty much my entire adult life and have made literal thousands of dollars and have never paid a penny in interest! Just be smart about it, because interest can be a lot, and missed payments will ruin your credit. 

Bonus tip: If you have no credit (or even troubled credit), you can still get cash back or reward cards by opening a secured version of that card. The deposit is refundable, and once you establish enough credit, you can open the regular version.

Bonus bonus tip: My card recommendations are (in no particular order): Discover (also offers a secured version), Capital One Quicksilver (also offers a secured version), Citi Double Cash, and basically any American Express if you have the credit for it. Keep in mind with American Express that most of them have annual fees, though, depending on your lifestyle, the benefits and rewards could more than offset the fee.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/qttiac/
author:killgoresalmonman
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:2712
numComments:277
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True