title:
YSK that taking a deep breath to calm down works better with diaphragmatic breathing

content:
Why YSK: If you’re trying to calm down, especially during a panic attack, diaphragmatic or belly breathing is what will help you relax. Thoracic or chest breathing is better for physical exertion and may actually make you more tense. [(Source: Mayo Clinic)](https://www.mayoclinic.org/healthy-lifestyle/stress-management/in-depth/decrease-stress-by-using-your-breath/art-20267197) Knowing how to use diaphragmatic breathing can help you calm down in stressful situations and potentially avoid a panic attack. 

From the link above, for those who don’t want to read the whole thing: 

•Get into a comfortable position. Close your eyes and bring your attention to your body and breath.

•Inhale deeply through your nose, allowing your abdomen to fill with air, gently expanding out. Exhale by relaxing and releasing all of the air through your nose.

•Place one hand on your abdomen, right below your navel, and the other hand on your upper chest. Take a deep breath in through your nose and out through your nose. Feel the coolness of the air as it enters in and the warmth as it flows out.

•As you breathe in and out through your nose, focus on shifting your breath so that you can feel the rise and fall of your breathing in your abdomen more than in your chest. In other words, make the hand that rests on your abdomen move more than the hand on your chest. Take a deep breath in through your nose, sending it through the back of your throat and down to your belly. Let your abdomen slowly deflate as you exhale through your nose.

•Take three more slow, deep breaths with conscious focus on the rise and fall of your abdomen. Continue to breathe fully and deeply, allowing and trusting the body as the breath slows and becomes more relaxed.

Edit 1: Thank you to u/inspirationisagift for adding this info in a comment, because it’s actually really useful!
&gt;Using a breathing method like box breathing/square breathing has been empirically supported as an alternative method that helps with panic attacks and times of high stress/anxiety as it brings the oxygen level down. This method deactivates the 'fight flight freeze' stress response which relies on increased levels of oxygen.

&gt;Deep breathing can sometimes give the body that extra oxygen which keeps the body in a stressed state, wheras by reducing respiration/oxygen intake, it helps to activate the 'rest and digest' system instead. Just in case anyone has found deep breathing to not be helpful 🙂

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/r6bw6t/
author:AnnaBananner82
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:1428
numComments:29
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True