title:
LPT: Write more notes for your partner and/or your kids.

content:
I’ve spent this latest season of my life making intentional time to write notes for my wife, my pre-teen and my younger child and I’ll never stop doing it. I only wish I had started sooner.

Every morning I write a short note to my wife and leave it on her nightstand for when she wakes up. These notes can be love notes, sexy NSFW notes, affirming notes, whatever I feel in the moment. Sometimes it’s an apology if that’s what’s owed.

Then my daughter gets a note which is inserted in her chrome book. I just open the laptop and stick the paper between the keyboard and screen. This is typically a note of encouragement with a reminder that I love her and I’m thankful for her. Sometimes I’ll do a countdown to something I know she’s looking forward. The goal is to insert positivity into a day full of preteen angst.

Lastly, my middle child who is much younger gets a note in his prepared snack for preschool. Typically this is a fun seasonal drawing or a little message that his teacher can read to him. 

This daily ritual has had such a bigger impact on all of us than I’d ever realized it would.

For me, it serves as a time of mindfulness. It requires me to take a moment out of a busy morning and spend a short but focused amount of time on the people I care most for.

For my wife, it gets her day started in a positive way. It maintains passion and fun in our relationship. 

For my daughter, it reminds her that despite her being the oldest, especially with her siblings being much younger, she’s always on my mind. Additionally it’s a reminder for her that she’s a really cool kid and investing in her confidence is priceless.

Lastly for my son, it’s teaching him thoughtfulness and consistency. He knows no matter what happens, he’ll get his little message. His teacher tells me he’s always more excited for the note than the snack, how fun is that? 

This whole process takes less than 15 minutes of my day but the impact it’s had on core relationships with my wife and kids is not quantifiable. If you’re looking to be a better partner, parent, or friend - start taking a moment and writing notes. You will not regret it!

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/r9dk8n/
author:bcardea
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:28713
numComments:511
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True