title:
LPT: Take at least one grand trip before you get married and/or have kids. Don’t rely on it being a honeymoon or baby moon either.

content:
There is some great advice out there on personal finance for saving. I believe building a strong foundation for retirement (savings, IRAs, 401ks, etc.) is definitely something everyone should work on. I also agree that an emergency fund is important.

All that said, make sure to take some chances as well, especially before you get older, get married, and have kids. You don’t have to buy luxury cars, take 10 exotic trips, or buy a million dollar house. One thing you should do is pick somewhere you have always wanted to go, save up, and get there, no matter what. 

Don’t skimp on the little things either. Make sure to take whatever time you need, plan it out, go to nice restaurants, see the sights, and stay in a nice hotel. A lot of my friends have waited and waited for those trips, thinking they would do it eventually. Some thought before they had kids, others on their honeymoon, and some when “they made enough money to justify it”. Most of them never got the chance. Some had kids early/unexpectedly, others married at the court house and didn’t want a honeymoon, some cancelled their honeymoons because of the pandemic, and others keep pushing the goal posts further on “how much they need to make to go to ____”. 

One trip, even an expensive one won’t break most people. It could also be the most amazing experience of your life. I got lucky and got to do mine when I was in college as part of a study abroad. I took loans out for it, worked OT at two retail jobs that semester, and didn’t have the loans paid back until I turned 30, but I have no regrets. It expanded my worldview, left me with some unbelievable memories, and made me a better person. 

Everyone deserves a win and most of us have a destination we have always wanted to go. Maybe a movie you love was filmed there, maybe you read a book that took place there, or maybe your parents went there when they were younger. Whatever it is, put something aside for it, plan for it, and be sure you get out there. If this pandemic has proven anything, it shows us that you never know what life might throw your way.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/raf02p/
author:Texas_Totes_My_Goats
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:2151
numComments:123
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True