title:
YSK leaving water bottles/snacks for any delivery or mail service this time of year can mean a lot to someone

content:
Why YSK, this time of year and even more so this year (at least in the United States as far as I know), the mail and package services are completely overwhelmed. This means your mail carrier and package delivery people including companies like Amazon even are working long hours and are on a strict timeline, and may even get extra work thrown on them if they complete their work quick enough and not really be given notice/time to prepare. Plus they can't exactly carry and bunch of food/drinks (especially in cities) to last all day. Doing small things like leaving a bottle of water in the mailbox (marked for them, otherwise they may not take it due to a fear of theft claims) or a cooler even clearly marked "help yourself delivery people" can make a huge difference in their day. 

My mom worked mail delivery for years and she always would point out the houses with glee as we drive through our small town that she remembered would have a bottle of water or snack waiting for her even when she was just a sub, as in didn't even have a set route every workday. When she got a set route some customers would even go as far as leaving her home made cookies and gift cards for coffee or lunch occasionally.

TLDR; Appreciate the people who even though are just doing their job, still keep doing it even when it's not even what they signed up for. You may just be another house if you don't, but you will probably be a highlight of a strangers day if you do and in today's world we need more of that!

Edit; if you are someone delivering please say what country/area of the country/service and what would help you whatever time of the year and any rules you have to follow to accept anything. About to go to sleep, but when I wake up sometime tomorrow I will edit again and add a list as best I can for anyone trying to set up care packages! Obviously water and snacks, but based off a comment I realized I've got a bunch of cheap shake to activate hand warmers that could really be nice for someone out all day. I also know some companies have policies where "helping themselves" could be reported in today's day and age so we could avoid it being a worry I'd like to know how! :) Have a good night/day everyone!

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/rdwhij/
author:Mbayer92
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:1153
numComments:46
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True