title:
YSK: When a retail worker asks if you need a size, let them get it for you, they’re actually asking you not to make a mess but are being polite about it.

content:
Why YSK: Especially in the holiday season now with retail stores getting extremely busy, retail workers just don’t have the time to spend cleaning up all day. They do in fact have a lot of other tasks to do besides clean up after you, and although they are getting paid to keep the store tidy, their job description doesn’t include being your maid. A little mess is fine, but don’t be that person that all the employees will bitch about when you leave. Making all that mess is unnecessary and you’re making their life much harder when it is __SO__ easy to not.

So if a worker asks if you need help with a size, let them get it. They’ll make no mess while getting it, you get the size you want, and then they have more time for the important tasks because they no longer have to clean up your mess. Everyone wins.

EDIT FOR CONTEXT: Majority of this relates to clothing stores, but works for all goods stores. In general though if you’re making a mess looking for something and an employee comes and asks to help you, don’t say no because you can look for it, say yes because they can look for it without making a mess and it makes their life easier.

EDIT AGAIN: Even if you live somewhere where being approached by staff to help is uncommon (which is crazy weird to me), the point is just don’t make a mess. Regardless of which country you’re in, the workers have better shit to do than clean up after people who somehow don’t know how to look through a neatly stacked pile of clothes without making it look like a bomb went off.

3rd EDIT: Thanks for the Gold, kind stranger!

4th EDIT: This one is for the entitled assholes here. I underestimated how many of you there were but I guess it doesn’t surprise me. I don’t care if you want my help or not. Reject it. Cool. Less work for me. But it’s my job to offer it, and higher ups push it on all the employees to make sure they’re offering it. At the end of the day, you don’t need to rip apart pile after pile like some rabid animal looking for your size. Unfold one or two shirts and then leave them on top of the pile. How entitled do you have to be to think you can just walk into someone’s place of work and create 10 times the mess you should have to? If you don’t want our help, tell us. We won’t bother you again, unless you start tearing away at shit and creating some trash heap of your unwanted garments. Just be a decent human being. God knows that’s asking way too much of half of you though.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/reja4r/
author:Triials
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:9873
numComments:319
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True