title:
LPT If you live in an apartment complex strongly consider getting a Christmas gift for your mainatnace man or crew. Something as simple as a box of donuts is perfect. It will benefit you much more than anything you could do for the people in the office.

content:
An article on r/nottheonion recommended giving your landlord a Christmas gift and while I think this actually is a good idea if you rent a house, if you live in an apartment getting a small something for your mainatnace crew is much more likely to benefit you in the future than anything you could ever do for the people in the office.

I give my maintained crew some home made croissants every Christmas and if I ever need some thing fixed I always make a fresh pot of coffee and set them up with styrofoam to go cups. I cannot stress enough how drasticly this improved the quality and timeliness I receive whenever making a maintained request.

Edit: comments are pretty good on this post. There's around ten people who claimed to be maintenance staff who agree that a gift and hospitality goes a long way to set you apart and put you higher on their priority list. Two comments claiming to be maintenance personnel did mention not enjoying or being able to take gifts because of regulations or feeling awkward. It also seems like a lot of people think it's a better idea to give money not food, but no maintenance person has suggested this or stated it as a preference so it could be one of those situations where people are just trying to one up the post. Overall this has been fun and I think it's clear that your attitude and consideration towards your maintainable person does make a difference.

Edit 2: Please know that this is not advice I would recommend to a single woman. As two caring commenters pointed out, it can send the wrong message and it's best to consider your individual situation and vulnerability.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/rfki6b/
author:CannibalRed
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:10079
numComments:229
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True