title:
YSK: Is your sliding closet door hard to move? Have you lubricated it?

content:
Our house is 30+ years old and most the sliding closet doors were hard to open and close. I saw a video showing household tips &amp; tricks and they used petroleum jelly (Vaseline) to lubricate the doors and now (2 years later) they still slide along effortlessly.

You have to be tall enough to reach the top of the door. There are usually a two brackets up on top with a small wheel that rides along a rail. If you can't see it you can move your door back &amp; forth slowly and feel around with your finger until you come across a little wheel spinning. Take some petroleum jelly on the end of your finger and touch it to the wheel as you move the door slowly.

The wheel will spread the jelly on the rail and use it up, which is what you want to happen. You should  have to use about 3 dabs to cover the rail &amp; wheel really well. Move the door as far as you can one way then the other. Repeat with the other bracket. Then repeat on the two brackets on the other door.

When you are done with the jelly just use the door handle to move the doors back &amp; forth as far as you can about a dozen times. This makes sure the lubricant is spread the entire length of the rails. You should already notice how easily it is gliding along. If not, then you have other problems.

Why YSK: A sliding door has moving pieces just like hinges move on swinging doors and need lubrication. Most people don't think about lubricating the moving pieces because they are hidden. You won't believe how easily some will open &amp; shut afterwards. This can also help your door from coming off the tracks because so much less force is necessary.

**Edit:**  Thanks for all the helpful comments. When I first did this the wheel felt like some kind of plastic and I was concerned what petroleum jelly would do to it over time. Obviously over enough time there will be deterioration but others have been doing this for decades with little adverse effects. Obviously it all comes down to the materials your wheel / rail are made of. 

 As far as other lubricants, Silicone grease would be the best. ( If you type "silicone vs lithium grease" into google you will find lithium grease is petroleum based like Vaseline). The reason I suggested petroleum jelly is that not everybody has silicone grease laying around, especially those in apartments &amp; condos with limited space. Most people have petroleum jelly. I'm really glad so many people found this useful. Let's keep helping each other out!

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/rj56k7/
author:Mo_Jack
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:1741
numComments:63
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True