title:
YSK that Unlimited PTO/Vacation is not a perk, even though it is often used as a selling point by companies during the recruiting process.

content:
Why YSK: in a traditional PTO package with a set number of days per year, your vacation time is accrued each payroll period essentially creating a bank of days off. Some companies will even let you carry over a certain amount of days into the following year (although that is becoming increasingly rare these days). If you are allowed 3 weeks per year and you are allowed to carry over 1 week per year, over the course of 5 years, you could build up a pretty substantial amount of accrued PTO. If you leave the company, they have to make you whole… in other words, that company is required to pay back all your accrued vacation time at the end of your employment. 

However, with an unlimited vacation policy, no vacation time is accrued at any point throughout the year. So if you had a really stressful year which didn’t allow you to take PTO and the company lays you off in December, you receive nothing. In the 3 week PTO example, the company would have to comp you almost 3 weeks of accrued vacation time.

Also, there is a psychological component in play as well. If employees are given unlimited PTO, most take less time off throughout any given year. If a company says you HAVE to take 3 weeks this year (no carryover), you’re going to plan out that time off. If unlimited, you always think that you’ll get around to planning time off but then that always gets delayed. As one who can speak from experience in my current company, I make sure to assign myself X number of days off per year and track to that. Believe me, it helps.

Just remember, a lot of companies are not “cool” or progressive with these perks that make them seem more attractive, they are usually tactics that somehow benefit their bottom lines in the end.

(Seeing a lot of comments about policies outside of US. Apologies, I should have clarified that all my experience is within US based companies. I am not surprised for a second that other countries take better care of their workforce)

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/rjnkl2/
author:Tigvee
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:3924
numComments:333
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True