title:
LPT: It's okay to be alone forever and to enjoy your own company.

content:
"Maybe he just likes his own company more than I like mine."

I feel we feel expected to find love and relationships but, some of us just don't feel comfortable or gain happiness from that. We can see why those who don't understand that are confused by it but in the end, we don't need to understand that, we just need to respect it. In the same way, those who enjoy their company might be confused why people prefer the company of others. Who's to say what is best. As long as we have no will to hurt others, we should feel comfortable whether we want to be around others or not. For some of us, finding ourselves and developing alone means much more than developing together.

&amp;#x200B;

&amp;#x200B;

&amp;#x200B;

edit: I appreciate knowing this has helped so many people. thank you for your messages, awards and just letting me know I helped. The overall message here was not that we should not have friends or family or pets, whatever, but that we should recognize that people are different and some like being alone and some dont. We don't need to understand that, just respect it. Some people here disagreeing harshly either don't understand my meaning or they do and are being the reason people have not felt comfortable with this idea, that it's okay to be alone. All you have is you in the end. You can disagree that we shouldn't respect that some people just like being alone, but seriously all the negativity on here. These toxic comments are the proof of what I'm talking about. That our society does not respect people who wish to be left alone. All of the childish mocking shows people think there is some high horse in being in a relationship. I feel very bad for you if you feel the need to disrespect people for what makes them comfortable.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/rkyw7r/
author:Tentmancer
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:28396
numComments:1295
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True