title:
YSK getting a girl really drunk so she’ll have sex with you IS RAPE

content:
Why YSK: it can effect the victim for a long time and could potentially land you in a lot of shit

It seems to me based on films I have seen, many of them are unknowingly promoting rape culture. In one very popular film I rewatched recently (Superbad), Jonah hill jokes that parties are for getting girls really drunk so they’ll sleep with you.

With recent personal events this shocked me that such a popular film would joke about something like that and normalise it. If you sleep with someone (whether it’s a man/woman) who is blackout drunk and likely would never even consider sleeping with you sober THAT IS RAPE, there was no consent.

If you’re still reading also please read up on symptoms of Rohypnol/ GHB (date rape drugs). Many people think being spiked looks like you’re really drunk, unable to speak or walk but the reality is often VERY different. They can make you euphoric, lose inhibition, increase sense of connection with others, influence decision making and increase libido. If the spiker knows what they’re doing it can be so hard to spot and it’s so important to look out for your friends and ANY indication they may have been spiked GET TESTED ASAP. These drugs only stay in your system for a few hours and we need to start catching these bastards!

Take care, have a good Christmas for those who celebrate it :)

Edit:

https://www.cps.gov.uk/legal-guidance/rape-and-sexual-offences-chapter-6-consent 
This is not my opinion this is fact. Read through the intoxication section.
"A complainant does not need to be unconscious through drink to lose their capacity to consent. Capacity to consent may evaporate before a complainant becomes unconscious"

Please stop making this a gender thing, I literally say man/woman, I can’t change my title apologies for that but I was heated when I typed this out initially

My post has actually shocked me seeing this level of hatred in the comments and comments saying “well what about *insert men’s issue*” NOT EVERYTHING IS A MENS VS WOMEN COMPETITION 

This comments section has just proved my point, many people don’t know this and refuse to believe it and it’s kinda scary

I don’t comment on posts about men’s mental health and suicide rates saying “oh yeah well women are more likely to get raped so that’s the real issue”ygm?? They’re BOTH issues, let them both exist

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/rn27jx/
author:thatbitchlol
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:2918
numComments:681
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True