title:
LPT: Do not let your job get in the way of important things in your life, the worst thing they can do is fire you...which may not be that bad.

content:
This post is inspired by the death of a friend, and how his good friend wasn't given time off to go to the funeral. No one ever lays on their death bed and says "Man, I should have worked harder at my job" 

If you have an important thing in your life that you want to attend, and your job says you can't go because you have to work, feel free to make it clear, you aren't asking for permission, you are telling them what you are going to do. If they refuse and say you have to work...then...don't show up to work. Also, be very clear. As in:

"I understand you plan on having me work this day, I will not show up that day."

I myself have had this happen twice in my life, on both occasions I did not show up to work and went and did what was important to me. The first instance was my high school graduation, I told my manager I was taking that night off, my manager said no, I said you can schedule me, but I won't be there. He scheduled me, I didn't show up. On the next day, I was scheduled to work, he wrote me up and I quit, on the spot with no notice. One of the best decisions I ever made. FYI I ended up with a much, much better job.

The second time my best friend was getting married, I had let my company (this is actually the company I work for now) know. They then ended up scheduling an important meeting. I made it clear I wasn't going to come, they said it wasn't a choice, I said I don't care. I didn't show up, my boss was mad at me, but nothing happened to me. However I still work for the same boss, he now respects my requests and understands that he might as well grant it because I'm going to do, what I'm going to do. This incident actually resulted in me missing a flight they paid for, and not showing up to a hotel, that they paid for.

Now, obviously, you have to be reasonable. If a new video game is coming out and you want to play that and your job really needs you, taking the time off regardless is not a good idea. However, if it is a major event, one that is probably never going happen again such as a wedding, a funeral, graduation, something life mattering significant. Do not allow your job to decide if you get to go to that function, it is not their choice, it is yours.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/rou4hu/
author:SonDontPlay
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:22640
numComments:573
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True