title:
YSK that there is a hidden economy of buying and selling addiction patients, and people are dying as a result

content:
I have worked in addiction treatment for 20 years, and YSK that in the background of all of these organizations is a quasi-legal economy of patient trafficking. One involes non-profit organizations that ostensibly educate and support the public, then turn around and "sell" referrals to treatment centers for personal profit (sometimes laundered as "you can buy advertising on our website" or "you can sponsor our events financially for a certain number of patients per quarter"). This violates numerous ethical rules and means that some community organizations that claim to be working in the public interest and who benefit from their non-profit tax status also have thriving direct income from selling your loved ones into centers that may not be the right fit for their needs. 

The other more publicized version are the internal and external "treatment loops" maintained between inpatient and outpatient centers. Essentially either one owner holds both centers, and they count on you relapsing in the lower level of care to send you back up to the higher level of care in and endless loop that ends in your death, or the inpatient facility partners with a series of poorly-run outpatient facilities or "recovery homes" that are either negligently or in some cases intentionally inviting relapse, then rushing you back through to the feeder system of inpatient care...is you survive. 

Why YSK: Because this can contribute to the relapse and death of you or a loved one. America has a complicated and complex issue with addiction, but this aspect is a part of the problem, and is not nearly well-known enough and gets ignored when the federal government releases millions of dollars in new grants, that then sadly often go to those exact organizations that continue to prop up more of the same kinds of cyclical addiction factories. 

Please, do your own research and choose the centers that specialize in the kinds of issues you or your loved one suffer from, and don't blindly take the word of community outreach personnel that may or may not have a vested financial interest in treatment failure.

EDIT: Just wanted to say thank you for all of the comments and awards on here. I was really hesitant to post this, because I've gotten into too many upsetting debates online about addiction and drug policies, but I am so grateful for everyone who read this and who wants to help! My only ask is that you advocate and ask for reform in this arena. Let them know you care about addicted people and you're not going to vote for someone who turns a blind eye to this kind of abuse. Thank you!

[Florida Addiction Treatment Scam](https://www.natlawreview.com/article/addiction-treatment-facilities-patient-shuffling-scheme-exposed)

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/rqtp1u/
author:nahnprophet
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:7072
numComments:360
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True