title:
LPT : Never encourage someone who shares they have an estranged relationship to reconnect with the estranged person

content:
I was fortunately sheltered for a number of years from a grandfather who was a truly vile person. Both sexually and physically abusive, I never knew why he wasn’t mentioned or talked about when I was young. As I grew older, I learned in addition to my grandfather, that my grandmother was equally vile - enabling, fundamentally dishonest, and mastermind to a ton of the abuse my mother and aunts/uncles endured. I would seldom say much when grandparents were discussed, but if pressed, occasionally I would just say “we don’t have a relationship.” 

Every so often, people with good intentions would respond how I “really should reconnect with them. Life is short and you never know when someone might be here today and gone tomorrow.” Or some other variation to encourage reconnecting. Don’t do that. Don’t assume you know someone’s reasons for no longer associating with a blood relative. Often times there may be an unspeakable evil to the severance of the relationship that they just might not feel like divulging to you. If someone says they no longer have a relationship with someone, it’s best to acknowledge that and just move on in conversation. If they want to discuss it further, they will. Onward and upward !

** Edit to address a common response that maybe I didn’t acknowledge well enough in the initial post. Of course some relationships become strained or end for mundane reasons. That’s why I ended with “if they want to discuss it further, they will.” If they discuss further with you, fair game to interject your opinion. The purpose of the post was to highlight someone may be intentionally vague due to issues they don’t care to / have to / want to divulge to you. And to not misinterpret that limited information as an understanding of the full situation and start blindly making relationship recommendations. 

It also warms my heart to see how many people have overcome bad situations and had the courage to share here. You should be extremely proud of yourselves!!**

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/rqworj/
author:No_Salamander_6579
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:7202
numComments:267
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True