title:
LPT: If someone you know has released a book and you want to support - buy two copies. One for you and one to donate to the local library. Bonus LPT - after some time, surprise your friend and take them to see their book, hopefully full of check-out stamps from all the people who've enjoyed it!

content:
EDIT: whoah, just woke up to a weird combination of awards and shitty comments and messages - what was I thinking posting this on Reddit! :D
I guess I’d better post some context for all the people saying ‘NO LIBRARY WILL DO THIS’ ‘NO LIBRARIES USE STAMPS’ and ‘DON’T DO THIS BECAUSE IT WILL SCREW UP AMAZON’:
Over the various lockdowns, two of my friends both wrote children’s books, got them self printed, and funded then via crowdfunding platforms (I.E kickstarter) where you could buy copies.
It’s not via Amazon, it’s directly from the author.
I bought two copies of each, which came signed. I kept one, and took the others to a local library, who WILL accept new children’s books, because their children’s books take the most damage so they always appreciate new ones. I asked the librarian who took them if they could tell how many times a book is taken out, and they told me that yes they could, so I assumed it was because of the stamps. That one is on me, because I guess that I am so grotesquely old that the last time I used the library, that’s how it was done. 
Both authors knew, and loved the idea that their books would be in a library, and read by kids who maybe couldn’t afford lots of their own books. Or just, read by lots of kids. It felt like a nice thing.

Anyway, yes I realise it is a specific LPT. But hey, maybe for some people it will stick, and one day, it might come up. At the very least, it’s a nice general idea that if you have a friend who has created something, some art or a business, you could support doubly by buying twice, once for you, and once for someone else who will enjoy it.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/rufk7v/
author:misscharliebond
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:8644
numComments:195
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True