title:
LPT: Be cautious of companies offering unlimited PTO. And vote/lobby against it if your company wants to institute it.

content:
Many companies are moving to this because studies have shown that people take significantly less time off when unlimited PTO is offered. There is a psychological effect that takes over and people who used to use their full 2 or 3 weeks of PTO now only use a week or less, it becomes a competition to use the least, and management then uses those low vacation usages against anyone wanting to actually take more time off (Becky is one of our top employees, one of the hardest workers here, and she only took 8 days off all year, why do you need such a long vacation?). Those same studies show that employees at companies with unlimited PTO almost never take a full week off (a real vacation) at a single time. There were obviously exceptions to this, but the general rule was that companies benefit from this policy and employees suffer from it. 

If your company is considering this vote against it. If you're applying for jobs and they offer this be wary. They will call it unlimited, but the company will give you hell if you try to use what would be a normal amount of time off if you had standard vacation days. And what's worse, is that you probably won't even try. It's a trick to make you work more and thank them for the pleasure of doing so.

Edit: I'm not going to be able to respond to a lot of this, but I want to respond to a couple common objections.

1. "Not every company using it to exploit workers, some have mandatory minimums, and get that paid out." Awesome. Some companies are good and will use this well, but not all. If a company offers this, ask a ton of questions about what it means, because not all companies will use it well.

But at the end of the day, that's still just basically giving you that amount of time off, plus maybe a day or two to cut out early on a Friday. It's not unlimited, and it's typically static, so you'll never accrue more than that if you stay with the company.

2. "I don't care what Becky does, I'll use mine and the rest of them can just deal with it." read the experience of many other commenters here who did this or have seen it done in their company. The people with the most days off were the first to be laid off/fired in the next years cuts. Also, you will still have to have a manager approve Time off requests in these companies, and then this becomes a game of who is better buds with the manager. Requests granted to pals, but not to the rest.

3. "This is the best policy if you get a long term illness, get pregnant, get married, etc. It gives you all the time off you need to deal with that situation." if you work At a company that actually allows you to take 3 or 4 months off in a row to have baby, or deal with a long term illness, please send me a resume. Those companies are unicorns in any and every industry and most companies will just force you to take most of that time as unpaid leave, and if you don't, they'll just let you go for some obscure reason. The idea that a company is doing this because they've got your back seems incredibly naive and does not fit the research around companies that have made this a policy. 

4. If you work at a company that does unlimited pto and encourages or easily allows you to take 2-3 months off a year, and pays out so much of it that you get to use it towards retiring 5 years early, and no one slams (or even threatens to fire) you for taking more than Backy and Todd did. That's great. First of all, please send me a resume, but more importantly, please don't encourage others to just expect this kind of treatment under this kind of policy. Most companies do not shift to this kind of policy in an effort to benefit their employees (as much as I wish they thoght that way), they institute policies like this because it is going to significantly impact their bottom line in their favor. If yours doesn't function like that, awesome. But most do. All the statistics bear that out.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/s4dliv/
author:Equivalent_Load4067
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:5793
numComments:893
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True