title:
LPT: Get yourself musician grade ear plugs and in doubt wear them, always.

content:
Hearing loss is a massive issue that can be prevented easily and unfortunately people only realise once it's already too late.

If you're at a concert, club or other loud venue and think it's too loud - make it a habit to throw ear plugs in. 

The reason I'm mentioning ear plugs for musicians is, that they almost work like the volume control on audio devices, they simply make everything quieter. They're a bit pricier but are definitely worth it in terms of sound quality. 

The foam ones reduce everything to a muddy bassy fudge which is often the reason people don't wear them, you loose a lot of the "magic" from the music - I keep a pair in my wallet just in case I forget the others. 

Nevertheless, anything's better than nothing, even if it's just a rolled up, slightly soaked piece of a paper towel - protect your ears - your later you will thank you.
As people posted they went to the docs for stuck paper, maybe don't go down that road 😂 I used it a few times as a last resort and made sure to use big enough pieces - looked like an idiot but at least my ears were fine the next day

1st Edit: as people were asking regarding recommendations:

These are quite nice, what's really good about them is, that they come with three exchangeable filters depending on the loudness. 

https://www.alpinehearingprotection.com/earplugs/musicsafe-pro/

I've also used those ones, which seem to be sold under various brands, if you Google "hearing protection musicians" those should pop up. Someone mentioned Eargasm which seems to be the same product. 

There are plenty of earplugs in the sea and apparently you can have them custom made, too...who wouldn't love that! 

https://www.scottishpipe.com/en/Bagpipe-Accessories/Ear-Protection/New-Original-Senner-MusicPro-hearing-protection-earplugs.html

2nd EDIT:
I just wanted to stress that this post was initially meant for hearing protection at music venues like festivals or your band practice - if you're standing next to a rocket engine 8 hours a day you need proper gear, the stuff I linked very likely ain't sufficient. Check out dB levels of your environment and get protective gear that gets it down to the 70-80ies. (Your ears can go 80db for around 8hours max). 
I'm no ear health expert but just a simple musician who's seen a lot of fellow musicians or music lovers suffer the consequences of not wearing the proper protective equipment. 

The main idea still holds up - PROTECT YOUR EARS AND WEAR THOSE GODDAMN EARPLUGS!!!

As you see from the comments tinnitus is a burden that's irreversible and can easily be avoided if considered early.
It's like wearing a helmet when riding a bike, make it a habit and f*** anyone telling you it ain't looking cool. 

Hearing protection should always match the environment you're in - metal concerts are louder on average than your unplugged jazz band concert, the drums can nevertheless reach critical dB values (measurement of loudness). I know I'm linking alpine a lot but their article sums it up nicely. 

https://www.alpinehearingprotection.com/music/hearing-protection-festivals-concerts/


3nd EDIT:
As I've seen lots of tinnitus sufferers:
While there's no cure, certain conditions might negatively impact tinnitus that can be relieved at least a bit. Neck, higher back &amp; face muscles, especially jaw can often make your tinnitus worse if they're stiff - if not yet attempted try seeing a physiotherapist specialised on that area. 

Also acupuncture is something that's often overlooked and might work to reduce the noise at least temporarily.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/s98tzg/
author:spockadoodle
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:3002
numComments:238
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True