title:
LPT: If your boss is trying to hide suspicious orders by doing it in meetings or phone calls, just send an email summary back to the boss after the meeting "checking for clarification".

content:
Seriously, a paper trail is hugely important when trying to demonstrate unscrupulous work practices, and unscrupulous employers know this. That is why they avoid it. 

Put them on the spot by letting them decide if they want to double down to clarify, or withdraw the unethical suggestions.

Edit: 
To be clear, I am not saying "challenge" your boss to respond in writing. Don't email your boss with: "After the meeting, I understand you would like me to illegally shred the paperwork that documented the embezzlement" 

As many have pointed it out, this can be a simple work practice of follow up at every meeting, with many ways to lay out the summary. It can be as easy as "Good meeting today. I plan to complete 'normal operation' by close of business today. What is the time frame on 'ethical conundrum?"

If you are working for someone who is asking you to go beyond professional ethics and is so uptight that an email summary clarification would be seen as you trying to get them in trouble, you should likely be looking for other employment or seeking oversight through your agency or regulatory agencies (dept of labor, OIG, etc).  

If you see your boss saying "I see what you are doing here", that means they have a brain. That's a good thing! Talk to them (Read:EMAIL), tell them the predicament they are putting you in and express desire for the two of you to solve the issue. Help them understand you don't WANT them to get in trouble, but that the alternative is YOU getting in trouble. 

If they aren't willing at that time to take some responsibility in writing, then consider other employment. Do you really think this job is going to be a long term prospect when you have to routinely choose between breaking your ethics (being miserable), or putting your job at risk by standing up for yourself?

I came off hot in initial post, but essentially we just want a workplace that is secure and safe to work at. You and your employer should be able to agree on that at least. From there it's just a matter of identifying boundaries/objectives. If they are asking you to cross boundaries, seek guidance from regulators. 

 Two more things to consider
1. Just because it feels wrong to you, doesn't mean it's illegal/enforceable. 
2. Just because it's illegal/enforceable doesn't mean it has significant enough priority to be enforced. 

If you are truly planning to take on your employer, hunker down. It's a long and miserable road with no guarantee of success, and you probably need far far more evidence than you think you do. Make sure your first priority is attention detail accomplishing your duties, then worry about their accountability. (This way your ethics remain pristine as well). Finally document EVERY way this impacts you negatively. (Mental health treatment , medical concerns, any  negative documentation, revoked benefits, change in status quo based on your questioning of suspect guidance).

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/s9q9yy/
author:ironicon4
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:3998
numComments:139
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True