title:
LPT: if you value your quality of life, don’t enter a saturated field even if you’re really good. Especially if you’re really good.

content:
I had to learn this the hard way from my experience in academia.

If you enter a really competitive and oversaturated field like humanities/social sciences academia or acting, art, music, professional sports, or pretty much anything where there is a world of difference between top and bottom earners with very few people at the top and hordes at the bottom, your results are going to depend on a few things:

1. Social privilege and other forms of luck. Self-explanatory. This will be the last time I’ll mention this. 

2. Talent. By “talent” I don’t mean just raw ability with the main skill itself, but the collection of relatively static traits and skills that play a role in how likely you are to be successful in that field. So, if you’re an aspiring actor, you obviously need to be able to act, but it also helps a lot if you’re attractive. This varies from field to field, but social skills and charisma are almost always relevant. 

3. How much bullshit you’re willing to tolerate. 

If you aren’t great in the talent department, you are likely to spend a lot of money on your education and will probably fail to find work that pays enough to pay the bills, if it pays at all. 

If you are truly a one-in-a-million superstar in your field, you may be able to bypass a lot of bullshit and this post doesn’t apply. And if you possess this level of talent, the people around you will probably make that obvious beginning pretty early in your life. In other words, if you have to ask about this, there’s your answer. 

But if you are like most people who choose competitive fields, you are probably very, but not exceptionally, talented (top ~1-5%, higher or lower depending on the field and how self-aware you are). Talented enough that people you respect and trust have probably told you a lot how good you are, and the concept of making it big seems reasonably possible. And you will be fighting for limited spots with people who are in the same exact boat as you. 

Talent generally occurs on a normal distribution. The further you get from average, the fewer people there are. There are arguably 1000 “very talented”s to every “exceptional” person pursuing a career in any given competitive field. So when you’re at this purgatory level — which almost everyone is, if they manage to actually get anywhere to begin with — it comes down to who’s willing to take more bullshit. 

Who’s willing to work 70+-hour weeks, evenings, weekends, holidays, even overnights? Who’s willing to move across the country or world to a new location that is chosen for you every few years? Who’s willing to work for free or close to it? Who’s willing to spend all their free time working instead of with their family?

Who’s willing to undercut the competition and play dirty? Who’s willing to kiss ass? Who’s willing to keep their mouth shut about hostile work environments, harassment, incompetence, and abuse from higher-ups? Who’s willing to take it with a smile and dismiss or backstab anyone who speaks up?

That’s what decides which “very good”s make it. When 100 people are clamoring for 10 spots and they’re all very talented, the main thing that differentiates them is bullshit tolerance. And if you won’t deal with bullshit in a competitive field, someone just as good who will deal with it will be eagerly waiting to take your place. 

Lots of people go into competitive fields for idealistic and even altruistic reasons, but these environments make people desperate. Things like self-respect, boundaries, and having inconvenient values and morals are frowned upon if not outright punished. What will you do when you can’t look in the mirror because of the people you’ve had to step on, lies you’ve had to tell, and dicks you’ve had to figuratively or literally choke on to stay afloat in your field? How will you reconcile this cold reality with your original vision of doing something meaningful, changing the world, and being yourself? In the face of what it all costs, will the meaning even matter? Will it make you happy? Is this really the only way to find fulfillment? Or have you just been spending your time around people who cling to that idea for dear life because they’re too terrified to face what it would mean for that to be a lie? What if instead, it’s a guarantee that you’ll have to forget who you even are and endlessly disrespect yourself to chase a projected version of a “dream” that doesn’t exist in the first place? Be honest with yourself. You deserve it. You *need* it. 

Bottom line: fighting for recognition in an oversaturated field renders you powerless. Different people have different levels of tolerance for this, but at the end of the day, prestige and bragging rights can’t tuck your children in at night. Avoid pyramid-shaped career paths. Unless you are truly exceptional, choose something secure and reliable and pursue your passion as a hobby.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/sbc11i/
author:springyslinkies
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:20080
numComments:1741
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True