title:
LPT: Keep yourself in good enough shape to push/pull your own bodyweight for survival purposes.

content:
Why it matters: I think a lot of people, especially in developed countries, take for granted the implicit "safety" that comes with living in developed or developing countries. However, people should be reminded of the dangers of not being able to manage ones own mass as it can still lead to very dangerous situations for themselves and others.

My thought process comes from people near ledges falling and catching the edge, but not being able to do a single pull-up. Or falling on subway tracks and being stuck without assistance. And in general it is deceptively easy to get stuck in other potentially life threatening situations, even here in the U.S.

My rule of thumb is "able to do one". You should be able to do: one pull-up, one tricep extension or "dip", one pushup, run for 5 minutes etc. I know the last isn't a "one" rule but you get the idea. This isn't meant to be pandering, many people these days cannot tick these all boxes and you don't have to run a triathlon to deem yourself "survival ready", but for your own day to day safety being able to manage your bodyweight for at least one good heave might be the difference between life and death someday. Stay healthy to stay safe!

Edit: reuploaded for title correction

Edit 2: There seems to be some confusion. I'm simply trying to point out that the world isn't as safe as people think it is. I am not judging anybody who can't do 30 pull-ups, I'm pointing out that regardless of how safe you feel it helps being able to pull yourself out of a sticky situation. Didn't think that'd be a controversial take but apparently "take care of yourself cause you never know what'll happen" is judgemental now?

Edit 3: a lot of people suggested the rule of 1 be adjusted to run/jog/walk one mile without stopping. Also another matter, history buffs spent too little time in English class and can't use context clues I changed some wording.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/sbm8jw/
author:Johnathan-Proton
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:11733
numComments:663
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True