title:
LPT: For those who have trouble waking up in the morning.

content:
Waking up in the morning to an alarm should be easy but somehow we humans manage to make it hard. I submit to you that if you are having a hard time, ie. snoozing/ignoring your alarm(s) and whatnot then you have trained yourself into that behavior and can very easily train yourself out of this oversleeping behavior. I used to have this oversleeping problem but used this method to train myself into waking immediately, thoughtlessly, and without suffering. Easy, simple, no cost.

And it is so very simple. You simply have to practice waking up. It is like any other skill. 
At some time before your actual bedtime prepare yourself for bed. Brush the teeths, wear the PJ's, Turn out the lights and get into bed (or whatever you would do to prepare for sleep), then set your alarm for a few minutes away. Then you must lay down and pretend to sleep. When the alarm goes off, roll out of bed and shut off the alarm and head to the bathroom, turn on the light, and have some water. This is the program. Next, do it again. Turn off the light, go to bed, set the alarm, pretend to sleep, roll outta bed, turn off the alarm, go to the bathroom, turn on the light and then go back to the start, repeat.

I practiced going to bed/waking up 10 times and planned to practice the next day as well, but the next time my actual alarm went off the 'program' happened perfectly so I never got around to practicing again. It worked that day and the next and every day since. Every time cementing the new training. Before I even had my first thought of the day, I found myself awake and cursing the bathroom light. I had woken without suffering, snoozing, oversleeping, multiple alarms, shaking alarm, hidden alarms or any of the other fancy malarkey I've attempted in order to wake up. Hope this LPT works for you.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/sm0npw/
author:Plasmakhitty
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:10372
numComments:576
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True