title:
LPT: If you're bad at remembering things about your loved ones, it's OK to take and keep notes

content:
 Having a poor working memory isn't a personal fault, regardless of the reason. People have a tendency to confuse not *remembering* something with not *caring* about it - if you have a bad memory, I'm sure you've heard "you'd remember it if it was important to you", and been guilt-tripped and shamed about it.

 The idea of writing things down about other people, and keeping a "manual" of how to handle them, might seem manipulative and downright sociopathic, because people are used to the idea that you're just *supposed to remember*. You're *supposed* to remember what your friends are allergic to, you're *supposed* to remember what they like and don't like. But it's not the tool that is right or wrong, it's how you use it.

 To use my own relationships as an example, I keep a "manual" of my partner written down - when he has a bad day at work, he will get a terrible headache. My natural reaction to comforting someone who is having a bad day is food - the first thought crossing my head when he texts me to complain about a stressful workday is "oh, I should get some nice meal started before he gets home, so at least he will have a nice hot meal prepared when he gets home".

 As my memory is poor, I can't name anything he likes at the top of my head, so I've written down things he likes and things he doesn't like. Checking "the manual", I have a list prepared, but on top of that I had written down something I had completely forgotten:

 Stress triggers a headache that makes him lose appetite - don't cook dinner for Headache Days. I've written down the things he opts to do instead in order to nurse the headache, so the best I can do to help is make sure that the shoulder heat pad he uses is available and charged, and the spot he'll want to sit in has been cleared out.

 I have a secret list of instructions for most of my loved ones. Guilt is an useless emotion, and trying to guilt yourself for not remembering will not make you remember in the future. It's ok to write things down for future reference instead of repeating the same mistakes over and over. Having a hot meal ready for someone who won't want one will only make both of you feel bad about it.

Knowing who someone is is a key component of loving them, and if something looks stupid but it works, it's not stupid.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/smouco/
author:BandaidPuppet
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:13390
numComments:356
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True