title:
LPT: Don't dump your dogs in the country. They're not going to live on the farm, they're going to get put down at best.

content:
Sorry for this rant, but yet again I'm stuck with a random dumped dog. In the past 8 months it's been 6 red tick coonhounds, a dozen pits, and now two Great Pyrenees.

See, I live behind some woods that happen to have a highway on the other side. People drop them off on the road, drive off without a second thought. I bet they think they'll go live a golden life on a farm. Spoilers: they don't. They get ate by wildlife, they turn feral, they get shot, or they go to the shelter and get put down. I have seen purebred dogs, dogs with toys, dogs with perfect coats, well fed dogs, ect on top of the ones you expect. The beaten, broken bait dogs that are unwilling to die. They all have turned up on my back door.

I post the flyers, I post on local Facebook groups, and without fail I'm forced to house them and re-home them. The shelter has a 90 percent kill rate, people buy dogs with taxes or on a whim, they get big or old or whatever, and they get dumped. Now it's almost tax season and the local pet stores will be sold out for weeks on end. And in a few months I'm going to have a flood of dogs on my property. I'm going to have to start eating the feral cats that get dumped just to afford this shit (joking).

Thanks for reading, though I imagine most in this sub wouldn't abandon their dogs. It just pissed me off waking up to two 6 week old puppies a few weeks ago that had been dumped.

Edit: the two great Pyrenees have been adopted out to a local farmer. They're going to spend the rest of their days with 100 acres to run on and a thousand head of cattle to watch over. It's an ideal fit for that breed.

Edit 2: this thing blew up. So, my Venmo is on my profile. If you want to help finance this, I'll take it. I'm not asking for donations and I don't expect anyone to help. But I have had a lot of messages asking for it and my phone might melt soon. I hope this slows the tide.

Edit Three: mods deleted it, though I don't see what rule I broke. Oh well

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/snrxtx/
author:Political_Divide
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:35999
numComments:1878
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True