title:
LPT Breaking performance records at your job is in most cases detrimental

content:
LPT: Be careful at breaking performance records in your company. If you can do it, it will become the new standard and in most cases, you will be expected to meet that record regularly, with minimal or no additional pay.

Literally every company I ever worked at did this. Someone would break a key performance indicator out of boredom, or to prove themselves, higher ups would notice it is possible, and that would be the new norm for everyone.

\----------------------------------

I work in a sales position. Back in late 2020, selling 4 units (per transaction) of a product was top agent (company is new and inexperienced with the market). Then one employee got angry one day because she thought she deserved a raise, and sold 6 units the whole day, thereby raising her average price (she got promoted much later, which she hated because of the higher stress, and transferred back, but the damage was done). Everyone was expected to follow her results to not lose their job.

Then one day, another employee did double the number of finished sales compared to the average, simply because he was bored. What he did was extremely stupid. He has shown that one person can do the output of 2. Do *you* like the workload of 2 people? Yup, a week later, everyone was expected to do 50% more orders (45) for the same pay.

Another time, a new guy was promoted and he wanted everyone to increase their average price or they get transferred to a different department. This was to justify his promotion. Most people did improve their average price. Increased the department revenue by 17% on average. Right next month, we had to meet that new standard to get the same bonus we were getting before with less stress.

Now, a year and a half later, we are expected to sell 10 units per transaction (and it's possible). The salary has improved, but not even close to company profits and daily stress. This is common in every job, so saying "that job sucks" is ignorant.

**Just because you can do better, that doesn't mean that doing so will result in a long-term benefit for you or your colleagues**. In our company, the requirements for the same bonus were raised 3 times because of this. Work smarter, not harder.

Bonus tip: Also be careful of playful bets and games. Anything that starts with "I bet you can't sell/do more than X, in this amount of time!" is a lead in to the same issue. A month ago, the boss of our boss made a bet that the department can't sell 50 of a certain product by the end of second shift. If we win the bet, we get free drinks on the boss! We won, got our drinks, and 3 days later everyone was expected to sell one such product with every transaction or get demerits (deductions from our daily bonus).

EDIT: I have finally gone through all comments. Took me a few hours. I noticed a misunderstanding among some people, which I will clear up here.

1. **NOWHERE** did I write that people should do as little as possible, the bare minimum. I hate that attitude in people. I myself was always among the top performers in the companies I work for, because I want to do my work properly, and refused 2 promotions because they didn't align with my goals (I want more free time, not more money), but after learning the lesson above in my previous job, I advise to THINK carefully if crossing a record will be beneficial LONG-TERM, not just once and then get screwed with the new raised expectations. Most companies DO NOT give linear growth between output and pay, and MANY do not give a permanent pay increase for increased expectations, but give you a one off prize, and then you are expected to achieve those amazing results continuously.
2. Some people made no difference between a job and a career.  This makes a huge difference.
3. Many people think every job allows you to negotiate a raise. Your raise is the ability to work even harder to get more money (but they have raised the bar 3 times when people were earning a little too much for their liking). Everyone is replaceable. This is the official stance of my company.
4. Top performers in my company also are the biggest liars to customers. Management knows and doesn't interfere anymore with the lying, because they did so once and saw a dip in sales. Money&gt;morals. Oh but they do give regularly to charities, single moms, people who are in need of money because of an illness, orphanages, etc. so that makes it all good, right? Screw us who just wanna do decent and not burn out, people who don't see their job as the reason for their existence.
5. I know the company I work for is bad (and am making exit plans), but I am disillusioned and do not believe that there is any company that will not become like this as time moves on.  


 UPDATE: 17.02.

It is with great joy that I can announce, that I have resigned from the company I spoke of in this post. I have been given an offer in a better company and have 1-2 months until I start working in a new company.

I was already out the door with one foot until they did another record breaking blunder. The supervisor made 2 teams, dividing the employees. A sale above a certain amount (which was 20% higher than the average amount we used) would be a point. The group that loses stays overtime one hour for that shift. Both teams combined broke a company record. In the same sentence the supervisor clapped for breaking the record, and said the losing team will work on the weekend overtime by one hour, instead of in that shift. That was the last straw. Also, 3 other people resigned as well, among them one of the 4 top agents. One female colleague resigned without having a new job, but she was bedridden for 2 weeks from the stress. She told me she cried daily for months. So yeah, screw breaking records.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/sob8q3/
author:ObsidianLion
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:23483
numComments:1508
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True