title:
LPT: An apology without a change in behavior is nothing more than manipulation.

content:
A lot of people I've met have a very hard time apologizing.  They really don't want to admit they are wrong.  So they will justify, gaslight, and generally do anything they can to avoid apologizing.  So in our various cultures we've come to see an apology as a big deal, simply because a lot of people don't want to even do that much.

However, as the title says, an apology without a change in behavior is nothing more than manipulation.  An apology is required.  It's an acknowledgment that a mistake has been made. Its an acknowledgment that something wrong happened.  But an apology in and of itself isn't much more than an acknowledgement.  

So when someone apologizes to you, remember what it really is. An acknowledgment.  Where the real "apology" comes in, is when the people that made that mistake, wronged or hurt you change their behavior.  That change needs to be immediate.  It needs to complete.  And it needs to be permanent.   

If the change takes too long to happen.  They are manipulating you.  If the change is partial.  As in they change some things, but not all of the things necessary to complete the apology.  They are manipulating you.  And if the change only lasts a day, a week, a month or a year.  They are manipulating you.  

How are they manipulating you?  Because they are trying to change your perspective on how you feel about them.  They are manipulating your feelings so you are no longer upset.  They don't want to make immediate, complete and permanent change.  They just want to change your mind and manipulate you.  

DO NOT accept a simple apology.  DO NOT accept delayed change, partial change or non-permanent change.  Demand and an apology, with immediate, complete and permanent change in behavior from the other person.

Thanks for coming to my ted talk, please make sure to tip your barista.

EDIT: A contribution by u/fusionsofwonder

There are three keys to an apology:

 1. They admit the wrongdoing.
 2. They express clear knowledge of why it was wrong.
 3. They promise not to repeat the behavior.

If there's no change in behavior, the second apology means nothing. If they claim they don't know what they did wrong, they clearly won't change their behavior.

SECOND EDIT: I see now that my assertion that the change must be immediate is asking too much.  Change is gradual as its been mentioned multiple times.  So I will change it to "Must show willingness and effort to change, however gradual that change is. A sort of slow healing process.  And the person who was apologized to can decide if they want to stick around during that time or not."  Thanks to u/LolHi113 and u/GoldenesDachl and others that have mentioned it.

MORE EDITS: Another good on from u/BioShockerInfinite "You can’t talk your way out of something you acted your way into."

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/srcbvb/
author:[deleted]
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1079
numComments:104
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True