title:
LPT: If you are an introvert at a house party and you feel as though you need a little break- go clean the dishes. You appear as though you are helping the host, rather than isolating yourself. But you can also escape to be alone for a minute.

content:
I'm an introvert, married to an extrovert. We attend events all the time and I often get socially burnt out long before he does. When I'm feeling rather drained and no longer want to talk to people, I try to find the kitchen and "help" the host by doing their dishes. The host is almost always very appreciative, and the sink is sort of a small escape place for me where I don't have to talk for a minute. Most people think I'm just being helpful (rather than being antisocial). And if the host mentions something like "Oh- you don't have to do that!", I typically respond with "You went through all this effort- the least I can do is clean a few dishes!" It's become a habit for me, and I'm now known as being "so helpful" by many of our family members and friends. In reality, I  just get socially exhausted and cleaning helps me get away from people to recoup. Thought this tip may save some other introverts from serious social burn out.

Edit: I seem to have hit a nerve with many and did not see how different cultures may view this quite differently. I assumed if you were attending a party, you likely knew the host quite well and were comfortable in their home. I'm in the Midwest US, where it's generally acceptable and appropriate to help the host clean- especially if they prepared a meal. Obviously I'm not going to go to my husband's work function where his boss has hired gourmet caterers and then invite myself into the kitchen to clean. This tip l should only be implemented where appropriate and where you're comfortable doing so. The real LPT here is to only utilize a LPT in your own life if it makes sense.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/srzl1t/
author:dawndollygolden
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:4125
numComments:308
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True