title:
YSK: If you're trying to lose weight for good, your number one goal needs to be breaking the habit of your current diet and starting a healthy, sustainable one, instead of trying to burn off as much fat as possible or eating less. Eat healthy and often!

content:
Why YSK: 

There are several approaches to losing weight quickly, they range from medications, fat burning diets, and even surgeries. A better approach is creating a sustainable diet that you slowly improve on. Start small, work your way to the next goal. 

Why people fail with diets:

1. Burning fat quickly without changing your diet habits will likely lead to you falling back into the same spot you started at.
2. Switching your diet too drastically will lead you to crave the foods (presumably unhealthy) you were eating before. It may also lead you to hate healthier foods because you tried force-feeding them to yourself. 
3. The misconception that healthy food either tastes bad, is too expensive, or is too hard to make. 
4. The normalization of sugary drinks. Whether its pop, apple juice, or that milkshake you bought from Starbucks, they are not made to consume regularly. Start replacing them with water, plain tea, or plain coffee immediately. 
5. Thinking eating less will keep the weight off. You actually might find yourself eating more than before, just with better foods and/or regular meals. 

Everyone's diet needs are different. You should start by estimating how many calories you need in a day. Just a rough estimate. You can try an online calculator as such: [https://www.calculator.net/calorie-calculator.html](https://www.calculator.net/calorie-calculator.html)

Next, you need to learn what makes a healthy meal. Calories are not everything, neither is avoiding one particular thing. The main categories your meals need to include are lean protein, vegetable, and whole grain. Adjust the quantities of each based on what you do (runners need more carbs, weight lifters need more protein). You should try avoiding things with heavy amounts of sugar, even excessive amounts of fruit. Fruits are a great source of vitamins, but high sugar quantities are not ideal. You are better off replacing processed sweets with fruits then trying to add them to your current diet. Processed sweets should be reserved for small occasional treats. 

Once you have that down, you need to make sure your meals are timed appropriately. This is a huge mistake I see people making. Skipping breakfast/lunch is not a weight-loss technique, you are telling your body to reserve foods you eat for longer (I.E. slower metabolism). Ever how skinny people eat so much? I would recommend eating 5-6 times a day. 3 meals, and 3 snacks. You can increase this if you are more active, but its a good minimum to have. Even if you are at a desk job all day, eating small quantities throughout the day is best.

The reason why training your body is important is because it will become natural to you. You will crave healthy foods, and not be able to tolerate large quantities of fatty or greasy foods. Same thing with pop. If you switch to water, I promise you will start to realize how truly disgusting pop is. 

How its worked for me: I grew up unhealthy, overweight, and unathletic. I made a big change when I started living on my own, and I will never regret it.  It is a lot easier than you think, and its true when people say the hardest part is starting. Start slow with making better decisions at the grocery. Stop going out to eat regularly, meal prep on the weekends so that you do not have an excuse when you get busy at work. Look up recipes if you've never cooked before, but then start making your own based on what you've learned is good/bad for you. Start exercising, even if its just taking a couple long walks each day, just get moving.

Hopefully this is something a little different than what you'd read off the internet and I hope it helps someone. Thanks!

My diet:

Breakfast: Whole grain cereal and raisins 

Snack: Nuts or Protein Bar

Snack: Nuts, tuna, or a granola bar

Lunch: Grilled chicken, vegetables (changes every week), grain (usually rice, sometime pasta). Soy sauce or a light dressing.

Snack: Same as lunch usually

Dinner: Grilled chicken (red meat every 3rd week) or Salmon, vegetables, grain.

Snack: Apple and crackers, sometimes chips.

Drinks:

2.5-3L of water daily

1 cup regular black coffee, 1 cup decaff black

1 cup green tea

Cheat day (weekly):

Go out to eat and get something unhealthy

Have a dessert

Alcohol

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/suxqlg/
author:Relevant-Asparagus-2
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:2576
numComments:109
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True