title:
LPT: How to compliment a girl without coming off as creepy

content:
Edit: some people are upset about me calling women girls, and while I understand where they're coming from, I feel like they're taking it the wrong way. I turn 20 in April and I still think of myself as a girl. Maybe I'm just naive. Anyway, to the post

I see that a lot of people struggle to compliment girls, because they aren't doing it the right way. I'm here to help!

I am someone who likes to compliment random strangers all the time, because I love seeing their faces light up. Here's a simple guide to help you all who are having trouble with complimenting girls:

- MOST IMPORTANTLY: do NOT NOT NOT NOT make the compliment about something she cannot control like her body or her face. It will come off as extremely creepy, and it will make her uncomfortable because it makes her feel like you are only looking at her as an object for sex rather than an actual person. 

- compliment things she is in control of like her outfit or her shoes or her makeup or her hairstyle.

- do not try to initiate further conversation after the compliment, it will make her think you have ulterior motives. Only continue talking if she engages; "thank you" does not count as engaging in the conversation. If she goes on to talk about something like where she got the shoes, etc. then it is appropriate to continue talking to her. Don't overstay your welcome, if she stops engaging, leave her alone. If you try to force it, she will get uncomfortable and you will come off as a huge creep.

Here is an example of a good compliment that will make a woman's day:

"Hey, your shoes are super stylish! Have a nice day" and then go right back to whatever you're doing. Don't linger or stare or wait for a response, it can come off as creepy. Try your best to be confident when you give the compliment, because it usually gives her a better impression. 

It can be super intimidating to do something like this, because rejection is scary. I understand. Sometimes people will be caught off guard or won't like being complimented, and that's ok. If you think you might have upset them, say something like "I'm sorry if I made you uncomfortable" (be genuine about this, if you say it in an exasperated or frustrated way, it will come off as creepy) and then disengage. That's the best way to take the rejection in stride.

Something very important to consider: be aware of your tone when you are talking to her. Do your best to be genuine and lighthearted with your tone. The anxiety can be overwhelming, but try to remember, it's nothing big. If you use the wrong tone, it can come off as desperate or creepy. It's best to compliment her on something you genuinely feel is worth complimenting. Making something up will make things much more difficult for you, because it will seem artificial and fake.

Please don't be afraid to ask questions! I'll do my best to help you. I believe in you!!

Remember, a single compliment isn't going to guarantee a friendship. It can help improve their opinion of you and can spark conversation that can lead to a friendship, so try not to have too high of expectations. Be proud that you made someone feel good about themselves instead of what you may be gaining from this interaction. You got this :)

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/sw1n55/
author:awkwarderest
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:4237
numComments:723
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True