title:
LPT: Guys-Get your colonoscopies

content:
 

I'm 48 years old. A little over ten years ago I was in the car pickup line at my daughter's school. She was in second grade. It was a warm spring day so we were all standing around outside our cars. This chubby guy was standing outside an orange Mini Cooper. I nodded and made the random nice car comment. He said its name was Oliver. Oh, like Hammond's car in Top Gear? His eyes lit up. Friendliest guy in the world, he came over and we started chatting. Found out we had nearly everything in common, and were best friends from that moment forward.

It's so rare to make any friends in your 30s with a family, much less a best bud. Our daughters were the same age and were immediate best friends too. Same with our wives. It was weird, we were all so much alike and got on so well. I helped them move, Joe helped me with some projects at home. We went to see Deadpool about a dozen times.

Last summer Joe, in his early 40s, had been having some stomach issues for a few weeks, then passed out at work. They did tests. Found a sizeable tumor in his colon. Chemo. Surgery. Complications. Another surgery. Another. More chemo when the last surgery found that the cancer had "spread significantly."

Joe was brought home from the hospital a couple days ago to be put in hospice. My wife and I are going over to see him later this afternoon.

To say goodbye.

I'm loading up a couple episodes of Top Gear on my tablet and am going to just sit with my buddy one more time.

Guys... Get checked. Get your colonoscopies. If something doesn't feel right, go to the doctor immediately and get it checked.

-----------
Editing to add because it looks like a common question. I'm no doc but I saw a GI doc comment that the current recommendation is for all adults over 45 to get a colonoscopy, potentially earlier if you have family history. 

And thank you everyone for the kind words. Wife and I are about to head over to Joe's. Gotta hold it together for him. I can cry in the car afterward.

------------
Evening edit. Got to sit with my buddy for awhile. He mostly slept. Woke up a couple times and held my hand. It was good to see him and remember all the laughs. Made it home before I bawled my eyes out.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/swckbi/
author:John_Wik
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:54694
numComments:3065
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True