title:
YSK that the symptoms of a heart attack may be quite different from what you would expect.

content:
YSK that the symptoms of a heart attack may be quite different than what you’d expect.

I posted this a year or so ago and wanted to share again because if I’d known earlier, I’d have gone to the ER much sooner. 

Its been about 2 years since my Heart Attack but it’s something I think about every day. Just yesterday I read about someone who lost a loved one due to a cardiac event because the person didn’t identify the stereotypical symptoms. You also don’t need to be what people stereotype as the ‘high-risk’ category or have had indicators or warnings that you could be at risk.

The chest pain, arm pain, shoulder pain were there BUT it may not be the “type” of pain you expect. I had waves of tightness dead center in my chest that would come and go every few minutes. It was a burning feeling. It was lower on my sternum than I’d have thought. I had never had a heart attack nor indigestion so naturally, I assumed it was the latter and my research online convinced me it was. Felt almost like when you swallow way-too-hot soup and it sorta burns down in the center of your chest. But it would come and go. 

I assumed it would have been a sharper pain on my upper arm/shoulder and a sharper, more acute pain closer to where we mistakenly generalize our heart to be…upper left chest. In fact, my symptoms were almost line-by-line identical to that of heartburn or indigestion … it wasn’t, **and the difference can be life or death.**

My arms hurt but it was more of a burning pain on the back of both arms. Maybe felt more like a pinched nerve. They say that it’s predominantly in one arm. I felt some in both and because I didn’t clearly have pain in one arm more than the other, I downplayed the possibility of it being cardiac.

Vomiting and sweating followed a few hours into it which was the big red flag…the ambulance not far behind the vomiting. The rest was a blur until the ICU but I do remember some of it.

I made the common mistake of equating the symptoms to heartburn or indigestion and should have gone to the ER 10 hours sooner and therefore found myself VERY lucky to have made it through. The doctors made it very clear to me that I fucked up waiting so long and I got extremely lucky. 

PLS don’t fuck around. I’m not an older guy, I’m not in bad shape and had never had indicators that I was high risk.

Females’ symptoms can manifest completely differently as well. A friends mother passed away a few years ago from a heart attack and by all accounts, it seemed to be a stomach bug. Nausea, hot spells and general stomach issues. Went to bed and never woke up, and in hindsight, if I knew then what we know now, we would have called for medical attention and possibly changed the outcome. She too wasn’t at the age you’d expect nor was she overweight or the typical high-risk category. Entirely different from what I experienced or would have expected from a cardiac event.

If you suspect a heart attack, do yourself and your loved ones a favor and treat it as such.

Better to be safe and be in the ER than be stubborn and wind up in the morgue.

TLDR - Symptoms and signs of a heart attack can vary from person to person and can be very different men to women.

WHY YSK - **IT COULD BE YOU. IT COULD BE YOUR LOVED ONE. YOU DON’T HAVE TO BE ELDERLY, OVERWEIGHT OR PREDISPOSED. JUST BECAUSE IT DOESN’T FEEL LIKE WHAT YOU MAY EXPECT, DOESN’T MEAN YOU SHOULDN’T TAKE IT VERY SERIOUSLY. **

——————-

A lot of people asked initially about how I knew it wasn’t anxiety. I didn’t. I’ve had several pretty overwhelming anxiety attacks, in fact one that took me to the ER because I thought it was a heart attack ironically. This was different. Something was very clearly happening, my mistake was attributing it to the wrong thing and mistakenly thinking I was clear because it didn’t ‘look like’ a heart attack.

The other astonishing thing is to look at the ages of other people in this thread who have had heart attacks. 21, 36, 30’s, low 40’s and more. Happens to a lot of people who are in a lower age bracket than we traditionally expect.

This is by no means meant to scare anyone, only to serve as a reminder that self-diagnosing or looking for specific symptoms can be quite dangerous. 

Take care yoselves. 

I’ll admit, a HUGE factor for me not going was the worry that I’d be *that* guy who went to the ER because he had a little indigestion. Dumb.

Post removed bc needed a source so here is the  American Heart Association’s page on recognizing common symptoms. https://www.heart.org/en/health-topics/heart-attack/warning-signs-of-a-heart-attack

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/sx904e/
author:surf_rider
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:9502
numComments:465
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True