title:
LPT: Take a First Aid Course

content:
I doubt I'm the first person in this sub to say this but **please consider taking a first aid course**.

It's a long time since I took one and, yesterday, I failed to save a life. Now, there is absolutely no guarantee that I could have saved this person's life but if I was appropriately trained, it can only have increased the odds.

Before I get into the story, please note that I am not looking for sympathy or an assessment of what I did or did not do. I simply want to encourage people to get trained. I don't feel responsible for the death of this person but I really wish I could have done more. If you happen to have a story of a time you did or did not save a life that you want to add, please do. The more stories we have, maybe the more people will get trained.

Yesterday, we were driving in the Oakland hills, taking our kids to a school event. As we were rounding a bend, we were flagged down by two gentlemen, standing next to a motorcycle that had obviously come off the road, who asked us to call 911. We pulled over and I called 911 as I jogged over to the scene. First note - there were mile markers along the side of the road that I didn't notice but a passing cyclist did (thank you anonymous cyclist) and they were crucial in helping emergency services find us.

When I got to the scene, I saw the motorcyclist lying on the ground, on his back, immobile. It's such a long time since I took any first aid training that the first things that came to my mind were the warnings about ways in which a careless and untrained person (i.e. me in this story) could further hurt a patient. This means I spent the first minute or two (maybe more?) not really approaching the patient and giving the emergency services person on the phone only minimal information (also, thank you emergency phone line people, you are amazing). I could see that he had wire around his neck but I had no way of cutting it. I was worried about removing his helmet in case I damaged his spine and I was worried about unzipping his armored jacket for basically the same reason. This meant that I could not really tell if he was breathing, I could only check his pulse (there was one).

Thankfully, at this point, another motorcyclist, in yellow, showed up and he was much more confident about unbuckling and removing the helmet and unzipping the jacket. He also cut the wire that was wrapped around the patients neck. Finally, we could see that the patient was not breathing (and his pulse and stopped by now) and I started chest compressions, with the woman from 911 giving me instructions. I switched out with another helpful motorcyclist who had stopped (this one in red) after about 5 minutes and he did another 5 before police showed up. I have no idea how long the patient had been laying there before I arrived so I have no idea how much of an impact those first few minutes of inactivity had on his chances of survival... but I figure every second helps. If I had been better trained, I might also have been able to give the woman at 911 better information about the state of the patient, faster, and... I don't know but it certainly couldn't had made anything worse.

So, if you take a first aid course, there is no guarantee that you will ever save someone but it definitely makes it more likely. This motorcyclist who crashed is now gone and most probably left a hole in the life of many people. It would be nice if we could help that happen less often, even if only a little.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/t87kv1/
author:pickyourpants
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1145
numComments:64
isOver18:True
hasPostBody:True