title:
LPT: If you're born poor it's not your fault, but if you stay poor its still not your fault. Be kind to yourself.

content:
We have so called privilege- a special right, an advantage to get to the top, an opportunity to be on higher levels, to become wealthy, but most of us doesn't have it.

.
.
.
.
.
.


Edit: Disclaim/Disclaimer/keypoints:
First of all Im not writing this for the lazy ones, a lot of comments telling to work hard and get out of the poverty line, obviously this LPT is for the hard workers, minimum wage workers you name it.

Second, I'm not discrediting the struggles, hard work and achievements of people who escaped poverty or wealthy/comfortable persons. You did well I congratulate you.

Third, there are parents and hard workers out there who probably died poor, but they have children that is very successful, can you blame them?.Vincent Van Gogh died in poverty but he is one of the greatest painter do you think its his fault?. Just because you are stay/died poor it doesn't mean you are a failure remember that. You may have a lot of hidden achievements in that poverty line.

Last.
Bill Gates once said if you're born poor it's not your fault, but if you die poor it's your fault. 

Well this sounds motivational, but poverty is not a choice due to many factors(privilege, education, health, opportunity, proper guidance ) especially if you're in poverty line since birth. 

The poor are most likely the most hardworking people around. (3rd World Countries)..Think of our garbage collectors, factory workers, janitors, tricycle drivers, ice cream vendors etc. If they even attempted a day with these folks, the bourgeois would simply melt in the sun.  

They are simply fighting for the right to lead better lives – with a roof over the head for starters. That’s an indication that nobody wants to be poor. We who are privileged need to be considerate.  It is irresponsible to blame the vulnerable for their mishaps in life. 

That is because nobody wants to stay/die poor.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/t8srq6/
author:Educational-Tie5732
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:42373
numComments:2108
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True