title:
YSK how crucial SLEEP, DIET and EXERCISE are for your quality of life

content:
why YSK: so that you can live the best life you can.

So, a little back story first. Jum to the next paragraph if you don't care :) Shortly before Christmas last year (2021) I was really close to burnout. The reasons for that are very complex and include a lot of personal details which I don't want to share here but believe me, when I say, some of it was absolutely out of my hand and other parts I could have prevented (more about that later). Luckily, I got to take a break from everything shortly before Christmas and now I have until fall 2022 to get back on my feet (you guessed it, I'm not from the US but from Europe). I knew from the start of my leave that I would spend that time building habits that help me stay strong and calm even when everything around me seems like it's going downhill. I firmly believe that I wouldn't have been affected as severely as I had been this last fall if I had had better habits in my life regarding (you guessed it) my sleep, diet and exercise.

A lot of people don't realise how much their habits regarding sleep, exercise and nutrition influence their quality of life. These things are the physiological basics of your life. Bad habits in either one of these fields will worsen your quality of life dramatically either instantly or in the future. The scientific evidence for this is overwhelming.

Sadly, there are still a lot of people that don't realise that they feel bad because of bad habits in one of these domains and they start wondering what illness they might have or they simply think life is supposed to be like that. One example, if you drink caffeine less than 6 hours before you go to sleep, it will significantly reduce the quality of your sleep (source: [https://doi.org/10.5664/jcsm.3170](https://doi.org/10.5664/jcsm.3170)). Yet people still wonder why they never feel rested even when they regularly drink coffee at 4 pm!! It just goes right over their head and it's not even news that that is bad for your sleep. And don't even get me started on how sleep deprivation influences how you feel, perform, react, ... (source: this and many more papers like this: [https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1365-2869.2003.00337.x](https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1365-2869.2003.00337.x)).

On the other hand, I acknowledge that diseases and disabilities can greatly influence your quality of life even if you are a pro at the things I mentioned in the title. Even if you're entirely healthy your life can also still suck even if you have your sleep, diet and exercise all worked out because life simply isn't fair. However, I firmly believe that having these three things worked out for you gives you a solid foundation of well-being that can brace you for whatever may come your way and that, sadly, most people lack.

**Bottom line**, if you don't feel good and it seems like there isn't really a particular reason for it, check if you have healthy habits in these domains. Usually, you don't yet or you could improve things in these domains. Invest the time to read up on these things, it will pay off. If not now, your future self will thank you!

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/ta5djf/
author:Delicious-Bridge6042
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:7020
numComments:263
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True