title:
LPT: head and shoulders really does help with acne.

content:
About a year ago, I came across a thread where someone said they use head and shoulders on their face. I'm in my 30's, but have had issues with acne since I was 13. I figured I'd give it a try, and if it made it worse I'd just stop. Well, here we are a year later and my skin looks the best that it has in almost 20 years! I got my teenage son to start using it too. 

I still get the occasional break out. I still have scars and redness from past break outs. I use a scar cream and a redness reducing lotion for those things. But my face is smooth! 

I actually use a generic brand called studio selections, but as long as it has pyrithione zync in it, it'll work. I'm just super happy with how my face looks, and my little bit of chest acne is gone too!

Acne sucks. Try out head and shoulders, it might actually work for you.



Edit: there's a lot of great info in the comments, but just wanted to address a couple things.

I couldn't remember if the zinc helped with fungal/bacterial, so I left that part out. I honestly just didn't feel like googling after getting most of the way through typing it.

This will not work for everyone. This does not replace any form of acne treatments. Just something I found that worked very well for me. If it doesn't work for you, don't get discouraged. Something *will* work, you just gotta figure out what. A lot of the time that takes going to a dermatologist. 

I just use it as face wash, and I don't get anything fancy. Just a generic brand I found with the pyrithione zinc. I've used all kinds of face cleansers over the years, none of them have worked this well without drying my face out so bad that it wasn't worth it. 

I'm actually kind of happy with my face, for the first time in ~20 years. Just wanted to share something that actually worked for me. 

Acne sucks.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/ta8b7x/
author:caitejane310
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1309
numComments:237
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True