title:
LPT: “Should I kill myself? Or should I have a cup of coffee?”

content:
Albert Camus’ philosophy is a happy take on the fact that our lives are meaningless, which is the basis of Absurdism as a class of thought.

LPT is to find joy in the mundane, accept that none of us are special, and “rebel” by making something of yourself against your own desire for meaning.

Life is worth living even if our lives have no built-in meaning.

I will take that coffee! ☕️


Edit: I didn’t expect a gold! It’s my first one!

I legitimately know how dark and bleak and how there are way more than just 50 shades of gray there are, and I was talking to a friend about how feelings of futility are really hard to deal with. So I shared Camus with her and it just kind of dawned on me that “there’s probably a lot of people who could use at the very least a speck of sunshine” so I posted here.

If any of you are feeling hopeless, have suicidal feelings/ideations, or just all around general “meh”ness, my inbox is open and feel free to DM me. 

I’m here to connect with those need it, because I need it, too.

Edit 2: Wow, this was a much larger response than I anticipated. I want to emphasize that I am *not* a medical professional, just a dude playing a dude who looks like another dude dressed as another dude.

Finding a solid therapist that works *with* me and helps me *through* my issues without shaming me or anything related to that - that, paired with a med combo that works for me, prioritizing sleep, and heavy weight lifting a few times per week - that combo helps to gimme the jooce to keep going. There are uplifting treatments that are available that are worth trying.

I did a 6 session round of Ketamine treatments (like, went to a clinic and was administered by a medical professional, monitored, hut mostly left alone to get the most out of the session), and they did help a lot more than I even came close to thinking. Just another available option that isn’t brought up a whole lot, but it fuckin’ works.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/tal0aa/
author:SplatterBox214
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:12305
numComments:515
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True