title:
LPT: Period guide for dudes

content:
I decided to make that guide for every guy who has any women around, not only wifes and girlfriends, but just friends, moms, sisters and colleagues.   


1. Have pads and tampons in your bathroom - Even if you live alone, buy some tampons and sanitary pads, and keep them in your bathroom. It may happen, that there is a party at your place or someone simply comes over and gets unexpected period (sometimes they come a few days earlier, it just happens) - just let the girls know that you have their back in that case. You can tell them discreetly or just have a box marked "pads and tampons :)" in a visible place in your bathroom. 

EDIT: Some people said that if the single guy starts dating someone and she sees pads and tampons in the bathroom, she may become suspicious and think he's cheating. 
I think that it's good to tell your date about that emergency box and the reason you have it. You can say that you saw a Reddit post and thought it was a good idea. If you have a sister you can mention her. Just talk with your date. 

2. Emergency pad or tampon in your car glove box is okay - doesn't take much place, can save someones day.
EDIT: Not obligatory of course, and if you do it put the product in ziplock bags so they stay clean and fresh. 

3. Every girl goes through period differently, so if you only experienced a girl that is acting normal, able to go jogging every morning and feeling all right on her period, don't say anything like "you are overreacting" or "this can't be that bad", or "you are exxagerating" when you see a girl who says she's very weak and feeling awful, suffering from bad cramps.

EDIT: changed "simulating" to "exxagerating" - I am not a native speaker and just copied the word from my language and hoped it will work lol


4. If you are close with the girl, ask her about her period preferences - some girls prefer to stay at home and nap a lot, some prefer staying active and going for walks. Some girls crave salty foods, some crave chocolates. Ask her if she uses any specific painkillers for her menstrual cramps and buy them to have at your place. 

EDIT: Yes, asking random girls out of nowhere about her period preferences is super creepy. This is why I said "CLOSE with the girl". If that's your girlfriend, I think there is nothing creepy in talking with her about her period. "How can I help when you're on your period?", "What do you usually crave more - salty food or sweets?" etc. 
Definitely don't ask random girls that question, but if it's a relationship and you take each other seriously, this can be helpful. 

5. If you want to have any pills to help with menstrual cramps, look for something that is both a painkiller and relax muscles. You can ask a pharmacist, they will help you.

6. If you notice that a girl has a blood stain on her pants, tell her discreetly. Offer your jacket if you can, so she can tie it around her waist and at least cover the stain. 

7. If a girlfriend on her period stays overnight, you can offer a towel (some old one) so she can put it under her butt - if there is any leaking, it won't stain your bed, and she won't feel uncomfortable for leaving a stain. But ask first I guess. 

8. If there is a blood stain already, you can use:
- Cold water (if it's fresh)
- Hydrogen peroxide
- Baking soda
- Vinegar

9. Girl may cry for "no reason" - she saw an TV ad where dog got some no-name brand food and was sad because he wanted his favourite Advertised Brand Food - boom, she's sobbing. Don't say anything like "this is not a reason to cry, stop acting like a baby". She is probably aware that this is a stupid reason, she just can't fight her period-mind acting like that. Better say that this dog is just an actor trained to act like that, and he for sure got a belly rub after it was recorded and got a favourite snack. 

10. She may feel weaker than usual - offer help in doing stuff she usually does.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/tduqga/
author:-acidlean-
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:27250
numComments:2399
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True