title:
LPT: When you’re stockpiling non perishable goods for an emergency, remember you actually have to survive on them in an emergency

content:
Coming from a discussion with a coworker today. I live in Hurricane country and it continues to boggle my mind that people buy a few extra cans of creamed corn and call it their emergency rations. You may be without power for a while and it may be a while longer before you can get real food again. A can of creamed corn a day isn’t going to keep you full or satisfied. 

My current stockpile as a single person (I rotate through and replace), which I hope to last at least a week if needed:

1. At least 2 16 packs of toaster pastries. I eat these daily for breakfast anyway. 

2. Bread and peanut butter. I always have an unopened backup. 

3. Canned beans (and I’m not talking green beans but more like black/kidney/garbanzo and similar) are my main canned staple. They provide protein and slow digesting carbs and will keep you fuller longer. I keep about 10 cans on hand. 

4. Canned tomatoes pair well with the beans and often come seasoned. 10 cans. 

5. A couple cans of peas, green beans, mushrooms and pineapple for variety. Probably only 10 cans total. 

6. Canned meats (chicken and tuna, though salmon/sardines/spam would fall in this category). Again about 10 cans. Protein will keep you full. 

7. Single serving fruit cups. Remember you may not have anywhere to keep your opened cans from going bad. 2 4-packs. 

6. Granola bars, dry cereal, dried fruits and chips/pretzels/cookies. I don’t keep a set number but they are on hand. 

7. When the power comes on and you can cook again, you may very well be sick of canned food, but the grocery store hasn’t restocked and restaurants that are open may be crowded. So, some boxed pasta/rice/other pantry food that requires cooking but not refrigeration is nice to have on hand. 

8. Seasoning. Hot sauce. Packets of salad dressing that don’t need refrigeration. Salt and pepper. You don’t want to eat bland food. Prepare now so you won’t suffer then. 

The longest my power has ever personally been out was 4 days for Hurricane Irma, but you never know. And don’t wait for a storm to approach either. Start buying a few cans now. Worst case scenario you donate them at Thanksgiving, or cycle through them like me.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/thknnn/
author:jayellkay84
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:25407
numComments:1285
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True