title:
YSK the difference between Spanish, Spaniard, Latino, Hispanic and Mestizo.

content:
The word Spanish is an adjective used to refer to things related to the country of Spain, like its language or people. For example, “I am Spanish” or “I am a Spanish person”. If you use Spanish when referring to people or things from other Spanish-speaking places, you are using it wrong.  

The word Spaniard is the noun form of Spanish, used solely to refer to Spanish people, for example “I am a Spaniard”. It is the Spanish version of “Englishman” instead of the adjective “English” or “Serb” instead of “Serbian”. If you say “He is Spaniard” (without the "a") for example, you are using it as an adjective and therefore wrong. The confusion tends to happen in the US because the noun and adjective for Americans are the same word.  

Latinos/Latinas/Latins are people from Latin America, so every Spanish speaking country in the Americas and Brazil. Quebec and Haiti tend to be excluded despite speaking a Romance language. They don’t have to look a specific way, they can be white, black, native, mestizo (more on this later), etc. Please don’t use the word Latinx, everyone hates it and it’s stupid. The word latino is used very often (by some people, exclusively) to refer to Americans with ancestry from Latin American countries that haven't been assimilated.

A chicano is an American with Mexican ancestry. They tend to speak "Spanglish". The word chicano might be considered offensive by some people. 

Hispanics are people from a Spanish-speaking country, so most latinos except Brazilians and also people from Spain. Equatorial Guinea is sometimes included too. Like latinos, they also don’t have to look a specific way, they can have ancestry from any country or countries.  

Mestizos are people that have both European and Native American ancestry. They are the most common “race” in most Latin American countries, because Spain and Portugal mixed their people with the natives (mestizaje) to strip them of their culture. This happened in other places with non-native american people too, like in the Philippines. They look exactly how most Americans imagine a hispanic person, brownish (darker or lighter) with black/brown hair, and therefore it has become common there to associate said appearance with ALL hispanics, despite the fact that whites, blacks, asians, etc can be hispanic people.  

Why YSK: You might offend or confuse people if you use these words wrong and contribute to the stereotype that Americans are stupid or ignorant. I hope this has cleared up your misconceptions.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/tvzj2a/
author:SkylineReddit252K19S
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:3648
numComments:478
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True