title:
LPT: If you’re American &amp; are in an ethnic store (Russian, Indian, Asian etc.) or interacting with people from there who’re new to USA, they are NOT being rude to you by not smiling after every word. In many cultures, people smile when there’s something actually funny. Straight face is normal!

content:
Let me explain a bit more for some commenters here who are taking the “every word” part of my post literally and are just up in arms about the post lol. This LPT is not trying to stereotype anyone or any behavior. It’s simply a tip to those who may have had experiences like the one in this post and wondering about it.

In USA, especially in a very Americanized chain/store, it’s commonplace that the shoppers are being smiled at and nodded at, used to being offered small talk, and being shown a sense of personalization and warmth by the salespeople. The salespeople/employees do so because they’re trained and mandated to be that way by the corporate policies. Some may be genuinely expressive, don’t get me wrong. Now whether these policies are right or wrong is not the discussion here. But the people in USA, who mostly shop at these “corporate” Americanized stores tend to get used to being treated like that. And when they go into an ethnic store, they might (not saying they will) get a bit taken aback if they witness cold behavior. These ethnic stores are generally run by small families who may simply not be originally from USA / raised here / newly immigrated to US, or they’re just set in their own cultural ways. So, all I’m saying is that if you come across people like this (whether in an ethnic store or somewhere else), their seemingly cold behavior is NOT them trying to be rude, impolite, careless, or insensitive toward you! They’re just doing their job without a smile because there is technically no reason to smile and it’s quite possible that they’re not used to / bound by the corporate cheeriness, naturally or by choice! They’re not angry / serious. In many cultures, it is considered absolutely normal to not smile unless there’s a joke or something funny said. So, please be nice to them in return! :)

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/tzhot1/
author:LittleBigMonet
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1446
numComments:162
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True