title:
LPT: You are allowed to change careers. You are are allowed to leave academia. If you studied for a higher degree in x or y field/discipline and want to switch fields - you still can, and totally should. There is no such thing as ‘time wasted studying’ if you are learning.

content:
Whoever decided that we should 'stick to our careers' because 'oh, don't you feel bad about all the time you spent studying x or y?' You hopefully enjoyed yourself and learned a lot in the process. If you are ready to move one, do it! You don't need to explain yourself. Don’t feel bad about it. And forget the haters.

*** 

Edit: There appears to be confusion over what I mean. I’d like to attempt to clarify. I don’t mean this applies to everyone under the sun. Clearly there are specific scenarios where changing careers becomes harder, but, for many of us, it is perfectly feasible and the only thing holding us back is the idea of a ‘wasted degree’ or ‘wasted time’.

If you are in debt 130k because, for example, you went to pharmacy school, you will likely need to work as a pharmacist for a few years because few other career lines will allow you to pay off your loan. This is true of various other ‘expensive fields’. If you have other responsibilities that make it hard to take even a small risk, then naturally, changing careers will be hard as well. 

In my case, I have a PhD in evolutionary biology so my monetary investment was minimal while my time/energy investment was high. It has been 5 years since I graduated from that degree and, after lots of thoughtful consideration and skepticism from the people around me, I have decided to start a small farm with my partner (who is knowledgeable about farming). I don’t know much about farming, but have been so surprised to see many of skills transfer in surprising ways! All this to say, don’t let the social/cultural expectation prevent you from pursuing something that brings you joy!

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/u3aykw/
author:jezzmel
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:2144
numComments:124
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True