title:
YSK that brushing your hair should NOT be painful and that if it is you are likely using a wrong type of brush!

content:
You know those ugly faces of pain you make while you pull the brush downwards and the ugly noise your hair and brush make as they struggle to cooperate? That's _not_ normal. That should not be happening!

However before you blame it on the brush or comb you need to make sure that you are also doing a correct or least harmful brushing technique.

Example:

Straight or wavy hair with tangles needs to be brushed starting _down_ and then working your way up. Meaning you grab a layer of hair, you hold it near end tightly enough so that you don't feel the brush pulling it from roots/scalp and then brush the end first. You brush under the hand holding the layer, not above. You move your hand up until you have brushed all the way to your scalp. Once that layer is brushed you can start with a new layer.

_Gently_ . Do everything _gently_.

The only time you can brush your hair up to down is after you have already brushed it out. Unless you want to be in pain and pull your hair out...

That's for straight hair. I don't have curly hair so I will not even pretend I know how to brush it. There is a whole sub dedicated for it. Please ask there instead or look it up anywhere else on the internet.


Why YSK:

_Every_ type of hair has their own dedicated _types_ of brushes and combs. For wet and dry scenarios. For straight and curly scenarios. For dry and oily scenarios. For thin hair and for thick hair. Etc.

Ever wonder why a hair salon is full of 50 different brushes on shelves? That's why.

It is something anyone who brushes/combs their hair deserves to know, but not everyone does. Not only does an appropriate type of brush/comb make your hair healthier, it makes the overall experience far more pleasant.

A bad brush or comb that brushes you badly will also make your hair look bad. It can make it look so lifeless. No hair product or shampoo can overpower a bad brush that _destroys_ your hair daily without you even realizing it.

All that conditioner and hair moisturizers won't make any difference if you take that bad brush and destroy the hair you spent hours caring for with different products. I know, I've been there.


Celebrities and influencers with beautiful hair will never feel the need to point out they are using 1000$ brushes with baby unicorn hair bristles. They will make it look as if it's just their hair products they paid hundreds on trying to convince you that _that_ is what your hair needs.

If they have a need to wear a necklace worth millions, you bet they will look for a hair brush worth millions. To them everything needs to be of high quality. Including something as small as a hair brush. But such little detail doesn't cross the mind of an average person.

A good hair BRUSH (or comb) is really the one that matters the most and they will not tell you that because then they can't convince you to buy their hair vitamin gummy bears...


Yes, there are literally brushes that cost over 1000$. Not because they are made of gold (okay, maybe), but because of their high quality hair bristles.

Some brushes are designed for oily hair and can make the most oily hair not look oily anymore because they spread the oil from roots down to the rest of your hair. If your roots are oily but your hair ends are dry - there is literally a brush exactly for that issue.

There are brushes for all kinds of _problems_ you might have. Appropriate brush is the appropriate solution.

Of course, you might be aggressive and brushing it all kinds of wrong as well, but if the brush is appropriate it shouldn't be as bad as I described in the begging.



I will finish this by saying that...

I will _not_ put any brush recommendation blogs here because they tend to advertise certain brands trying to rip you off in one way or another. So do be cautious. Do your own research. I want nothing to do with that. If this is something that interests you, it is not hard to find.

My brush didn't cost me above 8$ yet it does the job just perfectly. It cost exactly the same as the one that was ripping my hair out.

If this is something of interest to you, there are blogs explaining the brushes, combs and different types of bristles on each. There are YouTube videos as well. There is information on it. Please do check it out and judge for yourself.

Save yourself from this miserable experience. It is worth it!

Edit:

Another thing I failed to mention originally is that curly hair is very specific and has it's own set of hair rules and techniques. An actual brush with bristles will likely damage curly hair. If you have curly hair, using a brush and it hurts then you need to look up _combs_ for curly hair. Not brushes. The difference between the two is huge.

Again, please do look up a sub dedicated for curly hair. They will give you better advice.



TLDR

There is a _different_ type of brush/comb for _all_ types of hair. Including wet hair and dry hair. Straight hair and curly hair. Dry hair and oily hair. Coarse and smooth hair. Thick and thin hair. You _cannot_ use just any kind of brush for your hair. It will pull your hair out, it will hurt you and it will not do a good job in comparison to a brush that is designed exactly for your hair type.

It's NOT your hair. It's your BRUSH. Please search for a brush/comb that is appropriate for your hair. However, make sure your brushing technique is also good before you blame it on the brush.




Update:

I didn't expect this post to blow up so much. I've written it in 20-30min on a coffee break. Obviously I could've written this better had I know. I have edited it and made it better along the way according to criticism I've received but I think I will leave it as it is now.

I'm sorry if I have offended anyone, I meant well. I simply wanted to share this and make it known in case someone is struggling with this.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/u5nc8v/
author:NicotineSolitude
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:3817
numComments:212
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True