title:
YSK how to actually apologize to people.

content:
EDIT: To the people flooding my inbox - Regretfully, I am not able to help everyone write apologies. This post isn't meant as a failproof template, it's just meant to make people think and reflect. I personally believe that if you're trying to craft an apology, it should all come from you. Much love.

Apologies are hard. It takes a lot of guts, poise, and courage to make a big apology for a big fuck up. You have to make sure your fear of the moment doesn't control your actions. The longer you wait to make an apology, the less sincere it will appear to be. 

Step 1. Admit wrongdoing.

Admit that what you did/said was wrong. This implies shame. Shame and guilt are different. Guilt is impressed upon you externally, whereas shame is internal conviction. We often mischaracterize these things, or use them interchangeably, but knowing the difference can help inform our emotional responses to them. 

Step 2. Accept responsibility.

Let the person know that you won't make excuses for your actions, and that your explanations for them won't hold anyone else responsible but you. This implies an openness to accountability. Accountability is holding yourself to a certain standard, or allowing other people to do so. Being open to accountability is a product of self reflection and growth. It feels painful at times, but will ultimately lead to a more well rounded and healthy life.

Step 3. Express regret.

This is either the easiest or hardest step for people. A lot of people aren't used to having to apologize. It's difficult, but it's necessary to build trust. Regret is seen as either a product of shame, a cousin to it, or the most important part of it. However you characterize it, it is vital to ensuring that the person you're apologizing to feels like their feelings are being respected. 

Make sure that when you say what you need to say, you express yourself with "I" statements, not "you" statements. 

For instance: "I'm sorry that I said something so insensitive. I won't do it again." "I'm sorry that what I did resulted in danger and/or personal harm."
These statements highlight what you did wrong, and your regret for having done those things. They bring attention to the issue without making the person feel vulnerable again.


What not to say: "I'm sorry you got offended." "I'm sorry you feel like that shouldn't have happened."
These statements imply that the person receiving your apology has some responsibility to interpret your words or actions some other way, or that you believe there could have been a scenario where they took your words or actions to mean something positive instead of something negative. It casually takes responsibility away from you, which should never be the point of a sincere apology. 

Why YSK: Apologizing should be more frequent and less stigmatized in our society. Often times people feel that their actions or words were justified, even if they caused harm. That kind of feeling can/does bleed into other interactions that aren't justifiable and create a ripple effect of never wanting to apologize for anything. A lot of people view apologizing as losing power or credibility in a relationship, when it actually has the opposite effect. When you apologize, you display maturity, growth, respect, and a lot of poise. It shows your willingness to be a good person, even when inconvenient, which is the cornerstone of integrity.

EDIT: I know I left out a lot of stuff, I agree more needs to be added. To clarify: this is a draft for a speech I'm giving on the subject at a conference. I need to keep it to  a list of three things, and I can't have it go on super long. Apologies are complex, and not all are the same. This isn't meant as a failproof template for all apologies, just some points to think about. I agree corrective action and acknowledging the impact of what you did are important things, but I can't go into detail on everything **and** keep the speech below a decent amount of time. At the end of the speech, I'm fully planning on saying that there's even more to be done to make apologizing equitable and empathetic, and encourage people to ask me questions later on in the conference. A more complete version of this will be made available to the listeners online as well. I appreciate the feedback, really, there's just more to this than a reddit post.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/u7s7ne/
author:MangOrion2
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:6065
numComments:306
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True