title:
LPT: Drink Ginger Beer when you don't want to drink, but are expected to socially. (or if you're the designated driver)

content:
Many of us are expected to drink socially but may not want to. With friends, coworkers, bosses, family, at a wedding, whatever.

For those who don't know, ginger beer is basically VERY strong ginger ale.

1. Non alcoholic, like root beer.
2. Most bars carry it to use in Moscow mules. (comes in cans and bottles)
3. Significantly cheaper than alcohol so you're not ordering drinks that you barely touch for social acceptance.
4. It tastes good, burns a bit so you *feel* like you're drinking without actually drinking.
5. Many  times the ginger ale on the soda gun at a bar is set way too strong/syrupy to be a better mixer. (So ginger beer is way more reliable)
6. I personally drink ginger beer whenever invited to drink socially with friends (I'm a lightweight). And even keep some in the fridge as my "beer" when I get home. (Look in liquor section, not by soda)
7. Ginger is a mild stimulant, so it can perk you up if you need to be awake to drive friends home.
8. Bonus points if it comes in a glass bottle, avoids the subconscious feeling of being left out when all your friends have beers and you have a can of coke or something.

Edit:

After a very good comment from u/WarblingWalrusing, I feel I should clarify something. (That I also didn't realize on first posting)

Wisconsin drinking culture is very strong, and so drinking ginger beer, *for me personally,* is as much about wanting to not "miss out" or not feel apart from the group while out at the bars, as it is about avoiding people nagging you or asking constantly why you're not drinking. (Though that is a *big* part too) The ginger burn feels similar enough to vodka burn that you *feel* like you're drinking, but with no hangover. Most of the time I drink ginger beer, it's in place of drinking alcohol socially, so it keeps a similar sense of occasion.  ( I didn't realize until the guy made his comment, so there ya go.)

&amp;#x200B;

Edit2:

I live in the lovely state of Wisconsin, which is the drunkest state in the U.S.. The drinking culture here is very strong and judging from comments, I think people give you considerably more shit here for not drinking than other places, which I didn't take into account.

&amp;#x200B;

Additionally, I don't have a problem saying no to people's face when they try to get me to drink, but when that happens every 10-15 minutes over the span of 3 or 4 hours at a bar, it gets really damn annoying and it's easier to look like you're having a drink so people stop bugging you. (yes complete randoms will ask why you're at a bar not drinking. Don't ask me why, I don't understand it either.)

&amp;#x200B;

Edit3:

I'm seeing a lot of "this is dumb, just don't drink if you don't want to. Screw anyone for trying to pressure you into drinking" comments. Which are valid.

I'm seeing equally many comments about how they have been nagged or even politely been asked (repeatedly by many people over the course of an event) why they're not drinking.

It's ok if this LPT doesn't work for you, I get that it doesn't pass the bar of "holy shit this will improve my life dramatically" but it's helped me and it seems from comments that some people really agree with it.

If you don't, that's fine. I'm not trying to say you're wrong for disagreeing. I'm just seeing an uncomfortable amount of comments in that vein that are less than polite with other commenters.

Edit4: commentator recommended not drinking ginger beer if you get heartburn easily. Best stick to mocktails.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/ukwcu9/
author:HerrRatz
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1350
numComments:454
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True