title:
LPT: Practice doesn't make perfect, or even better. Practice makes permanent. If you practice doing something incorrectly, it will become far harder to get better as you have to unlearn bad habits. Be conscious of the right way to do things before devoting time to practice.

content:
This is something I learned while in school for music, but can be applied to any skill that needs time and effort to get better at. You could put in hours and hours of practice and end up only digging yourself deeper into a hole. If you practice a scale wrong 1000 times, it becomes much harder to play it correctly than if you made sure to practice it right in the first place. Be aware of the right way to do things and put effort into getting better in that manner, even if it is harder at first. In the long run, unlearning something wrong takes much, much longer than learning something correctly once. Effective and focused practice is much more important than the amount of time you spend doing so. The person who practices a scale right 10 times is better at it than the person who practiced it wrong 1000 times

Edit: As many are saying, the phrase "perfect practice makes perfect" is similar to this. I personally use "practice makes permanent" instead as it emphasizes the potential for habits, good or bad, to become solidified.

Edit 2: I should clarify that mistakes are perfectly fine and even encouraged, as long as you can recognize them and take steps to improve them. Also, sucking is absolutely allowed; no one is good at something when they first try or will be able to do everything correctly in practice. The point of "practice makes permanent" is to warn against careless practice that may just end up being detrimental in the future if you let too many things slide. It's about identifying, preventing, or "painting over" bad habits to ensure you're spending your time effectively. When practicing, be conscious of what and how you are doing and take measures to ensure you are on the right track. Many students and other people learning skills think that time=skill (often learned from phrases like "practice makes perfect"), when really it's how you spend your time that matters.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/ul54j9/
author:CankleDankl
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:28953
numComments:455
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True