title:
YSK what a shame spiral is and how it differs from panic and anxiety attacks

content:
Edit--TRIGGER WARNING: intrusive thoughts, anxiety/panic attacks, suicidal thoughts

Why YSK: knowing the underlying cause of the intense horrible feelings will definitely help you get to the source faster so you can then actually heal from it. You can't always think your way out of an attack/episode if you haven't worked on certain things like self-compassion. Shame spiraling is often overlooked and it is a great cause of panic and anxiety amongst of people who don't know how to cope with it.

This is something I literally discovered a few days ago.

For the longest time, I just figured that I had panic and anxiety attacks and occasionally would fall into these "depressive" episodes that led to suicidal thoughts. These episodes always started with something that I did to inconvenience someone, like feeling really bad before a group hangout and having to bail pretty much last minute. Then I would feel this insane pressure in my chest around my heart and be weeping, like near hyperventilating levels of weeping with really intense thoughts like "its my fault, everyone hates me, I hate that I'm like this, I hate myself, im a burden to others..." and then the thoughts would spiral to the point of "i shouldn't be here, I want to die because I feel so bad and I can't cope with this feeling. I did something wrong and I cant fix it, therefore I deserve this. I deserve to hurt and be punished."

Well. This is not an anxiety or panic attack, my friend. It can turn into a panic attack for me sometimes (see hyperventilating and the idea that I am trapped, see thought list). 

This is a shame spiral. 

The worst part is that in the moment, it feels justified. It feels productive like "look at me, I can take responsibility, I am doing the right thing by punishing myself". Unfortunately, you doing all of this internally does NOTHING. It only hurts you and it can be scary for others because it is a very intense episode to observe from the outside. It really looks like an insane meltdown. But that's okay. 

Here's the cure: self compassion and boundaries. You don't have to whip yourself for making a mistake or making a call that you need to make for your own mental health. That's not yours. Someone else made you feel like that's what you had to do long ago (or maybe currently if you are in an abusive relationship/household). You don't have to hold onto those painful rules or expectations. 

It's not your fault.

It is NOT your fault. 

You aren't doing anything wrong by setting boundaries and needing to take care of yourself sometimes. There is a lot more nuance to this topic as it is common in lots of mental illnesses but when accompanied with narcissistic tendencies, with self compassion there also should be the added accountability but the realistic accountability and working towards making amends (and recognizing that even if you apologize, sometimes things cannot be amended and that is sometimes to learn from not to punish yourself over). 

[Here's an article that goes over some other steps to help stop shame spiraling](https://www.healthline.com/health/mental-health/shame-spiral-self-compassion#So,-how-are-you-feeling-now?)

EDIT: Here is a link to Therapy in a Nutshell's playlist on processing emotions:
https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLiUrrIiqidTWje-Oc4uA6LZZO8vSaHaDL

The video is specifically about shame spiraling: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7KepQX1tBvI

Here are some warm lines if you find this post triggering and need to talk to someone: https://screening.mhanational.org/content/need-talk-someone-warmlines/

Suicide hotline: https://suicidepreventionlifeline.org/

Tldr: identifying what shame spiraling is, how to handle them, and how its different from other anxiety and panic attacks can help you better cope and avoid lots of pain and misery and even interrupt suicidal thoughts.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/umo62r/
author:Igotalottaproblems
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:10637
numComments:249
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True