title:
YSK if you purchase an item online and receive the product with a missing part. Always return for a full refund or ask for a full replacement. Never purchase the missing part from the seller brand as you will never get any reimbursement for a part you already paid for twice.

content:
Edit: Adding this here since people are not reading the entire post and keep leaving rude comments.

The reason i purchased the missing part from seller instead of returning first. It's because during installation the brand/seller technician informed me that you can purchase missing part from us and amazon will reimburse the amount for missing part to you, they said this is the standard process for this item and you just have to provide the bill for missing process. It was not the standard process. And got to know this later.

Also I've done this in the past. I wanted to return an item with a missing bracket amazon customer care told me to just order the missing part and we will reimburse you. But they actually have a limit on amount of money per customer they can reimburse. If it's above that you're fucked.

The YSK is that if seller asks you to buy missing part from them and get reimbursement from middle man, it's better to replace/refund the entire item itself.

\*\*\*\*\*\*

Why YSK: Because if you choose to purchase the missing part from seller you might not be able to get a full reimbursement for the missing part you already paid for twice now. You should always return it for a full refund and buy again or ask for a full replacement of the product.

My recent personal experience:

Recently I ordered an item from amazon from a high profile brand and it came with a missing part. You cannot open the box yourself without brand technician as it voids warranty.

At the time of installation with brand technician they told me that a part is missing in the box and you can purchase it directly from the brand and ask amazon for a reimbursement. This is the standard process they said.

THIS NOT THE STANDARD PROCESS. DO NOT FALL FOR THIS.

I thought okay and paid for it and got the item installed.

Later when I got in touch with amazon customer care they informed me they don't have any such  communication with seller and cannot give me a full reimbursement. They can only give me a small amount which doesn't cover the full price of the part I already paid for twice.

Lessen learned.

You should always return the item for a full refund and order again as if you buy the part forget about getting reimbursed.

Leave a feedback regarding same if possible.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/unamh0/
author:insovietrussiaIfukme
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:7508
numComments:152
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True