title:
YSK How to protect your pet during a disaster.

content:
Why YSK: Many times during a disaster or evacuation there is limited time to leave. Many shelters are not set up to allow animals. Others may have restrictions. You may be put in a situation where you are separated from your pet or not allowed to retrieve them yourself. Planning in advance can save lives.

1. Have at least one good photo and a good description of your pet and if caged their location on your phone or in the cloud where you can access it. This will help identify your pet. 
2. Scan copies of shot records into your email especially if it is something like a rabies tag which many shelters require for access.
3. Have a carrier in your home suitable for every animal. If you have three cats you really should have three carriers. You need at least two. If the emergency is area wide there may not be additional cage space where they are sent and as loving and trusting as Fluffy is it would be dangerous for you and him to carry him or have him loose in a shelter during a storm. 
4. Remember that the person saving your pets may not be you. If you live in an area where there is conflict or is prone to extreme weather you should consider a save our pets sticker for a front window or attaching a brightly colored piece of paper to an area likely to be seen listing important information. If you have carriers prepared or caged animals this is a good place to list that.
5.  It is best practice to have a colored index card attached to each cage or carrier with your contact information. The pets name and description and any urgent husbandry information. If your pet is exotic it is extremely important to list the species and common name.  I laminate mine and ring link them to the carriers but anything that keeps that card with the pet will do.
6. If your pet has special dietary needs try to have at least three days worth of food and a bottle of water near the carrier that can be grabbed quickly. The person rescuing your pet may not be you or you may have limited time so I keep a supply bag in one of the carriers. 
7. If your pet is exotic or special needs it is good planning to have someone who is willing and able to care for them already prepared to do so in an emergency situation. Having husbandry instructions already prepared can be very helpful if you are unreachable.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/uqe3vc/
author:Polyfuckery
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:7782
numComments:267
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True