title:
LPT: if you’re in college/trying to build a career, land a part time job where rich people hang out.

content:
A lot of career / portfolio building comes in forms of connections and who you know. In my specific example, I worked a part time job at serving at a country club that was a bit from my university (I also have friends who work in upper class retail / restaurants and it has the same exact effect). 

You talk to so many well connected people and in turn make so many connections, and in ways that you wouldn’t even expect. You get business owners, doctors, etc. and if they aren’t doing what you want to do, they almost 100% know someone who does and they will hook you up. I scored a pretty solid med internship because one of my regulars had a friend in the field I wanted to go into. I got my friend a pretty decent house sitting job because another regular was going out of town and needed one. 

This stuff is like LinkedIn in real life, and they all come to you. Every time you clock in it’s a networking event and you’re getting paid for it. Plus if you work for tips, they’re usually pretty damn good.

Though there are cons to this- you do have to service rich people and occasionally they can be just unholy and very entitled (most of my regulars are absolute dears). It’s also a lot of fake laughing, but I feel like that’s most customer-facing roles anyways. You do have to put in some time getting to know your regular patrons. It’s also still a job, so you’ll have to work. But it very much is a “you get what you put in” type of thing, without the legwork of actively seeking out the people.

EDIT: I think I should clarify a few things- I am not white, nor am I rich already. I do well at my job and get great marks in college because I want to go to med school. Anyone who knows what it’s like to be in a competitive field knows that it’s important and helps to at the very least know people and get your foot in the door. Does it suck that it’s the way it is? Absolutely. But I’ll be doing everything I can to succeed in a system that wants me to lose. 

Further, these people are country club rich, not Kardashian rich. They are/were workers too and usually have built up their wealth just as we all have to. People who were born into wealth are people who aren’t worth talking to anyways about careers, because they don’t work, thus aren’t really meant to be included in this post. Regardless though if they’re rich or not, it’s always good to be kind to everyone.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/uqg12l/
author:lexaprogoalie
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:23446
numComments:971
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True