title:
YSK how to handle wild animal encounters

content:
Why YSK: I live near Yellowstone National Park and every year someone is mauled. Sometimes, it's locals, but more often than not, it's tourists.


For bears- always remember that a gun won't kill it right away. Spray is much, much more effective.
Black bears: Carry bear spray. Know how to spray it and how to aim. If you're on a situation where you don't have bear spray and you're being charged, make yourself as big as possible and MAKE NOISE. If it's near you and ready to attack, your elbows and knees will work. Poke it in the eyes. Remember, only do this if it's attacking. 

For brown bears/grizzlies: always maintain a good distance. They're fast. If you're being charged, opt for spray rather than a gun. Like I mentioned above, you can shoot it, but it'll keep going. If it is sprayed correctly (in the eyes) it will be harder for it to follow through with its attack because it can't see you.


For bison- maintain a distance of at least 25 yards, including in your vehicle. Yes, they're amazing creatures, but they're fast and huge. They will not hesitate to trample you, *especially* if they have young. Plus, they're pack animals. You mess with one, you're bound to die. 


For wolves- maintain a good distance of at least 100 yards. I'd say admire them because they are wonderful creatures but please. Just stay away.


For mountain lions- absolutely stay away. They're fast. Make sure you're always aware of your surroundings. The grass, dirt and rocks are all pretty much the same color as them. If you're being watched/stalked, back away SLOWLY. Do not run. They will chase you, and they're much, much faster than you. You absolutely will not survive that. Do NOT crouch down. Make yourself appear bigger. Throw things in it's direction, don't hit it. They absolutely will and have gone after small children, so don't let them wander. 


For bobcats- Don't turn away from it. Make noise, make yourself look larger by stretching out your arms, raising your jacket above your head, etc. If you're attacked, kick it. They're not small, but they're not as big as a mountain lion. You've got a fighting chance, for sure. Go for the face, step on it, etc. 


For moose- always maintain a good distance. Even small moose or those without horns can absolutely kill you. They're fast and will trample anything in their way. A small moose came through my town and she was the same height as my pickup, a tacoma. They can be aggressive, especially during calving season. If you're charged, make yourself bigger. Bear spray can work on them, too. 

Lastly, turkeys. They're not super common here, but absolutely will go after you if you piss it off. A couple years ago, a guy I went to school with (not the brightest by any means) went after a turkey while we were on a walk for class. He tripped and the turkey bit him. Not very hard, but enough to draw blood. If you've decided to piss off a turkey, just run. I guess kick it if you have to? 


Anyway, please stay safe. Medical bills for maulings aren't cheap, and any animal that attacks a human (or goes into campsites repeatedly) will be euthanized. Keep bear spray on you, and stay away from the animals. They will all kill you. It's something that can be prevented and easily, too. 

Stay safe and happy exploring!

Edit: 
Geese- make sure you listen when they're warning you. If they attack, they're probably protecting their young or eggs. Back away and give then a nudge if they're running after you.

Dogs- there's not a problem with wild dogs here, mostly just people letting them out and forgetting to let them back in. If you encounter a dog that looks rabid, though, back away, keep others away, and call the local police department. Unfortunately, there's nothing you can do for a rabid dog, and they'd have to be put down.

Magpies?- there is no threat, other than them taking garbage occasionally.

Wasps- just don't go near them, don't swat at them and *do not* kill them. They'll release pheromones alerting others that they've been injured.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/uvdkfi/
author:Top_Jellyfish3149
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:1260
numComments:162
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True