title:
YSK, Heat can kill you with almost no warning.

content:
Heat is known as a “Silent Killer,” which ends more lives than any other weather phenomenon. Heat stroke often comes on so gradually that a person isn’t even aware that they’re in trouble until they’re in really big trouble. 

Why YSK: Symptoms of heat stroke can seem to happen very suddenly - but by the time symptoms begin, a person is minutes from death.

Source: NOAA. I’m also a meteorologist, and almost died from heat stroke when I was 18 years old. 

https://www.noaa.gov/stories/excessive-heat-silent-killer

Prevention is key! If you start feeling any symptom of “heat exhaustion” you need to take immediate action to get cooled down - NEVER keep pushing yourself! Even just sitting in the shade can kill you when heat conditions are extreme. 

Remember: there can be few, if any, obvious symptoms before someone who has heat exhaustion transitions to suffering heat stroke, and *heat stroke kills within minutes.*

*If you ever witness someone lose consciousness or they begin speaking nonsense in high heat: assume they have heat stroke and that this is a life-threatening emergency! You have literally only minutes to save them.*

Immediately cover their head with a cold, wet piece of fabric. If there is a cooler nearby with semi-melted ice inside, don’t just dump it on them, *ice water is the ideal remedy: soak a t-shirt or towel in ice water and wrap it around their head.* Then call emergency services. Lastly, if possible move the person to an air-conditioned space. 

You might just safe a life this summer, like somebody once saved mine!


My story: I was a teenager, and I spent the hottest day of the year hanging out in the parking lot at a Dead show (it was the 90s!). I had no indication at all that I was unwell until I suddenly began to feel a bit dizzy. I turned to a friend sitting nearby (I still remember this moment), and when I attempted to speak, I heard only gibberish come out. I remember my thoughts were clear enough that I was bemused and thought, “Wow, that’s really weird.” I decided to go lay down in the back of my friend’s van, and when I stood up I took about 10 steps before I felt myself drop to my knees and lay on the ground, as everything went black. Next thing I knew, I felt a freezing cold, soaking wet shirt on my head, and I came to immediately and was coherent again. I was extremely lucky that someone nearby who saw me fall took immediate action, which I now know literally saved my life. Thank you, thank you, a thousand times, whoever you are!

Also, see the tragic story of the young family and their dog who died hiking in CA last summer. An absolutely horrific accident, and it could’ve been prevented.  

If you made it this far, thanks for reading my long post. Stay safe out there, y’all.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/vaucta/
author:StochasticNobody
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:2568
numComments:141
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True