title:
YSK: For all the new and future fathers today: There may not be any "lightbulb" or "magic switch" on the moment your child is born, and that's ok.

content:
Why YSK: Fathers to be are often told that the minute of birth changes all perception, but if it doesn't that doesnt mean you are defective or that your love won't grow.

I was a reluctant father, mostly out of fear of the kind of father I would be. Throughout the pregnancy, most of my emotions were apprehension and anxiety, but all I ever heard from everyone was "you will feel different the minute she is born" and "it's a life changing moment". Even my dad, who had left our family while I was growing up, said it was the biggest moment in his life and changed how he saw everything.

I'm not an OB/GYN but being present for a birth wasn't new to me, as I had delivered babies in med school and had quickly lost awe in the "miracle of life" during sleepless 24 hour calls. Of course during our own, the anxiety not just about our child, but also my wife's health, built during the labor and delivery.

It was great meeting our child and a relief seeing her normal APGARs. But as I followed her to the NICU and held her skin-to-skin while my wife had to stay in the delivery room for monitoring, the two most pressing thoughts I was experiencing were.

1. Concern about my wife's health and how she couldn't be present for these first few hours
2. No 'light bulb'. No 'magic switch or moment'. What kind of sociopath must I be that I felt like nothing changed between the 3 hours before delivery and now. If even my father, who I feared becoming, had that moment, what was wrong with me

Now I look back almost a year on, when I look at my daughter and hear her laugh, I get a deep ache in my chest with how much I love and care about her. That concern is completely gone as I know no one could ever love her more than I do. There wasn't any magic moment in the last year; no time or event that I could pinpoint where my love grew exponentially. But through the sleepless nights and watching her develop into her own little person, she has turned into my world.

tl;dr: everyone's love grows differently. Just because there isn't a quantum leap at the moment of birth doesn't mean they wont become your everything in time.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/vfzp3c/
author:thebuddhaguy
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:9016
numComments:185
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True