title:
LPT: If you’re a professional (or aspire to be), use direct language. Do not be ambiguous or apologetic.

content:
I work in a professional and confrontational field (very large construction projects) and the number of newcomers (and surprisingly some long-timers) who try to appease all parties by being diplomatic or inoffensive blows my mind.

“No” is an incomplete sentence in business, but “No, we won’t do that because X, Y, Z” is indeed a complete sentence. Framing a “No” with “Unfortunately we can’t do that” or “That shouldn’t be a problem” or “We don’t usually do that” is a door left open. If the answer is no, close the door all the way.

If you *don’t know the answer*, the *best* answer is “I don’t know, I can find out and follow up.” In and out, no formulating a guess or stumbling over your words.

You will not sound like an asshole. When you know something, you know it. When you don’t, you don’t. Higher-ups and colleagues will come to you with questions/problems when they know that you will give them a straight, honest answer.

In case you’re wondering, this is also how confidence-men (and women - ahem, Elizabeth Holmes) set up their big cons. Be confident and direct.

EDIT: Look at everyone being direct without mincing words or being apologetic. The worst tip ever on the LPT sub? Beautifully confident and unambiguous. 

EDIT2: Why did I mention con-artists? Because that's all business is. Whether you're awarding a $500m contract to a legitimate company or a con remains to be seen until you get that first invoice. 

EDIT3: I am literally watching an email chain go off the rails right now because of this very issue. You can tell me I'm wrong, but I'm watching a sinking ship in real time, folks.

**FINAL EDIT: Yes, this is actually how I approach my job. Today I've been in C-suite meetings, director meetings, department meetings, subcontractor meetings, all day long I've been specific and direct. I have never gotten negative feedback on my approach. I have been in my industry 10 years and I would say the first 5 were constantly trying to appease and the second 5 have been 'this is how it is.' I am much happier as a result of the direct approach.**

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/viwhjc/
author:Chemistry-Least
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:4085
numComments:308
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True