title:
YSK: A vasectomy is an easy surgical procedure. It’s really quick, and you can go home right after. You’ll need to rest for a couple of days after the vasectomy.

content:
Why YSK: A vasectomy is an easy surgical procedure. It’s really quick, and you can go home right after. You’ll need to rest for a couple of days after the vasectomy.

Does getting a vasectomy hurt?

Probably not. Your doctor will help make your vasectomy as comfortable as possible. You’ll get local anesthesia to numb your testicles, so you shouldn’t feel much during the procedure. You may also get medicine to help you relax.

You may have a little discomfort when you get the numbing shot or when the vas deferens tubes are handled during the procedure. But overall, you shouldn’t feel too much pain.

There are two types of vasectomies: one that requires an incision (a cut in your skin), and one that’s incision-free (no-scalpel or no-cut).

What happens during an incision vasectomy?

The doctor makes one or two small cuts in the skin of your scrotum. Through these cuts, the tubes that carry sperm (vas deferens) are blocked off. Sometimes, a tiny part of each tube is removed. The tubes may be tied, blocked with surgical clips, or closed with an electrical current (this is called cauterizing). The whole thing takes about 20 minutes, and then the cut is stitched up.

What happens during a no-scalpel vasectomy?

The doctor makes one tiny puncture (hole) to reach both vas deferens tubes — the skin of your scrotum isn’t cut with a scalpel. Your tubes are then tied off, cauterized, or blocked. The small puncture heals quickly. You won’t need stitches, and there’s no scarring.

No-scalpel methods — also called no-cut or no-incision — reduce bleeding and lower the risk of infection, bruising, and other complications.

How will I feel after my vasectomy?

You can go home and rest right after your vasectomy. You may feel some discomfort or pain after your vasectomy, but you shouldn’t be in terrible pain. You may also have some bruising and/or swelling for a few days. Wearing snug underwear that doesn’t let your testicles move too much, taking over-the-counter pain medication, and icing your genitals can help ease any pain. And don’t do any hard physical work or exercise for a week after your vasectomy.

Call your doctor if you have:

A fever over 100° F.

Blood or pus coming from the where the cut was made in your scrotum.

Lots of pain or swelling in your scrotum or testicle area.

These signs could mean you have an infection and need antibiotics.

How long will it take me to recover after my vasectomy?

Most people only need to rest for a few days after their vasectomy. If your job is physically demanding, you’ll have to take about a week off from work. You shouldn’t exercise or do any hard physical work for about a week after your vasectomy.

How soon can I have sex after my vasectomy?

Usually, you can start having sex again about a few days to a week after your vasectomy. Some people wait longer. If having sex is uncomfortable, wait a few more days. Just remember that the vasectomy WON’T prevent pregnancy right away.

It takes about 3 months after your vasectomy for your semen to be sperm-free. Your doctor will test your semen and tell you when the sperm are gone and the vasectomy is working as birth control.

To collect a semen sample, you’ll masturbate into a cup or use a special condom when you have sex. Until your doctor says there’s no sperm in your semen, you should use condoms or another form of birth control during vaginal sex.

Source: [Planned Parenthood](https://www.plannedparenthood.org/learn/birth-control/vasectomy/what-can-i-expect-if-i-have-vasectomy)

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/vjrwe1/
author:ForgetfulLucy28
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:4551
numComments:555
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True