title:
LPT - Condoms, what you need to know.

content:
Condoms came up in conversation in another thread and I wrote a small collection of tips that might be good for everyone to know. 

Make sure that you use condoms that are the right ones for your penis. It is a good idea to measure your penis. 

Condom to big? Chances are it'll slide of during sex and end up in your partner. This is mostly not dangerous, but it's everything but sexy and it'll ruin the mood quite a bit. 

Condom to small? It'll have a chance of tearing open when it... Starts to fill up. 

Condom hurts? If rim hurts, your Penis is big, condom is small. If your glands hurt the condom is small. Essentially condoms don't hurt, if they do they are the wrong brand for you.

Condom itches? You might be allergic to latex... Take it of, don't finish. Sex is nice, but having a working healthy penis is better. 

Condom breaks? Breaks at the bottom (rim), condom to small or you have sex to furiously. Breaks at the top, you pulled it down to far or it's to small. Breaks anywhere else, bad brand, never buy again. Top "explodes" because your condom if filled with air. 

Condoms do not survive long in your pocket or wallet, heat will break down the latex bonds. Which means the condom can break or possibly leak. Store condoms safely. Dark and cold if possible, never in direct sunlight. 

Buying condoms can be hard if you are a teenager or otherwise a bit prudish. But always know that one condom is cheeper than 18 years of raising a child.

"Skin-tight non-feel, invisible condom..." Sucks. You look at them wrong, they break. And it still feels as if you are wearing a condom. Go for the real stuff, Durex or Trojan or whatever exists where you live. I once had someone tell me "a good condom is one you can put your hand in up until your elbow without it breaking"

"Condoms break? But I filled it with 20 liters of water without it exploding when I threw it at Phil". Condoms do break, most often from friction, which there is more of if the size doesn't fit your penis. There is very little friction when filling a condom with water in a tub... But when you use a condom to small and go in a bit to dry... Things end badly for many reasons. Condoms are great but so if caring for your partners needs. 

As your local pharmacists for help, or if that's to hard or embarrassing, just take a stroll down google and find a condom supplier, these sites often have much more information than I just handed you. I pay almost triple price for condoms, because I order them online so I know they are almost custom made for me. 

I hope this helps some of the people out there to make good Decisions now that COVID restrictions are getting less harsh... ;)

Edit:

Wow my phone blew up when I started it. I was not expecting well, anything to come from this. Had I known that this post would have gotten this much attention I would have included all the seriously better tips down in the comments. I lazy edited my comment which spawned this post, so the real heroes with the actual tips are down below. 

It's past midnight here and I have work in the morning, I was just starting my phone to start some white-noise... So sleep well everyone and stay safe.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/vqe75p/
author:Ecleptomania
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:18455
numComments:1015
isOver18:True
hasPostBody:True