title:
LPT: If you want a tattoo in another language, don't get a direct translation, it requires MUCH more research than that.

content:
I've seen posts about tattoos on this sub before and frankly, they're all wrong. 

They advise getting a native speaker to check the meaning first, and while that's a start, it's not enough. Sure, it'll help make sure your tattoo says "black cat" rather than "ass monkey", but you need to ask yourself, "what does a black cat mean to that culture?"

Language and culture go hand in hand, meaning that whatever proverb you're hoping to get likely won't translate well and will seem foolish when you eventually come across a native speaker. To your culture, a black cat might symbolize bad luck, while in another it may be good luck, or simply have no meaning at all! When I took Japanese, I was surprised that they don't say any form of "bless you" when someone sneezes, it's simply not part of their culture.

This is something I have experience in, given I've told more than one person that their tattoo doesn't mean what they think it does, or that it is simply something that would never be said or used in that culture. 

So what *should* you do?

Again, speak to a native speaker, that's always best. Instead of asking for a direct translation, instead ask if the language/culture has any similar proverbs, idioms, or phrases that get across the same *meaning*. 

I've talked to people before who wanted Japanese tats to directly translate something like "once in a lifetime" or "a shot at happiness" when a better idiom with more meaning would be something like 一期一会 (Ichi-go ichi-e) to mean "one time, one meeting".

Sure, if your nickname is "Black Cat" and you want to get "黒猫" (kuro neko) or "ブラックカット" which sounds out "Black Cat" but could also mean "Black Cut", then go for it. If you want something that indicates you're an unlucky person and it MUST be in another language that you don't speak natively, ask someone to help you find something that portrays the meaning you desire.

Oh, and don't trust what's on the walls in tat shops.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/vqtd39/
author:SushiThief
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:2045
numComments:230
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True