title:
LPT: Obvious management incompetence is the reddest of red flags a job can have. If you recognize it, start looking, immediately.

content:
I just went through this wringer for the 3rd time in my life... and it will be the last time I overlook this red flag. Hopefully, this can help some here who are younger, to avoid this same pain. 


You'll be presented with all sorts of hard decisions in your personal and professional lives; one of the hardest is knowing when its right to remain optimistic and 'stick it out' for things to get better, to keep putting in the effort, or just cut and run, the situation's hopeless, you're on a sinking ship, get off. 

In my decades on this earth, the one consistent, foreseeable factor that has been present in every bad job situation that turned our poorly was this; there were significant competency issues with management *that were obvious on Day 1*, but overlooked for the sake of hoping things would improve, or hoping the initial impression was incorrect.  Reversing course, early, on an unfortunate job choice that turned out to have red flags is much less painful in the long run than sticking it out and suffering through incompetent management. 

* Dad founded the business 40 years ago, retired and handed it over to his idiot son, who now ran the place. Son knew the details of 'how the business ran' but had no idea how to run a business or manage people. Employees suffered. Daily. 

* Tom founded the business 25 years ago and handed it over to his 'protégé' who was an utterly clueless houseplant that relied entirely on his subordinates to make every decision. When things were good, he took credit. When they were bad, he blamed. He had no active part in anything that happened, other than being called a 'manager'. Tom was a talented local businessman, but a terrible judge of character and picked the wrong person to take over. Employees suffered. Daily. 

* Mrs Davis, a lovely old lady who ran the flower shop and was a fine florist, but couldn't manage anything so whenever there was a big order or the deliveries for that day were complicated, it was an utter mess... and she just didn't understand why everyone kept screwing everything up!!! Employees suffered. Daily. 

You get the idea. 
Incompetent management will never put the noose around its own neck and hang itself, to benefit the people who must suffer under it. It blames. It blames subordinates, it blames circumstances, it deflects every single negative event as being the fault of someone else. Well managed companies have accountability protocols in place for bad management but smaller companies usually do not, which means its the employees who must suffer until management either does something so dumb they get sued out of existence, or the bad manager is finally exposed to whoever has the authority to fire him and it happens... but this can take years. Sometimes, it just never happens, especially in smaller operations run by owners or long-timers who cannot be fired. 

Long story short, if you get a new job and come to realize that you're being managed by someone who you wouldn't otherwise trust to mow your lawn, or who knows less about what's going on than you do, massive red flag, start looking. You're about to be in for a seriously negative professional journey.

If you think its bad now, just wait... it gets worse.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/vv9v88/
author:Charts_Graphs
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:5611
numComments:173
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True