title:
YSK to avoid “Devilcorp” type job postings if you are currently job searching.

content:
Why YSK: There are a multitude of downright fraudulent job postings across all major job seeking apps that can be very easy to fall victim to, especially if you are new to the job market due to their use of vague but enticing language and promises of opportunity. Jobs of this kind all follow the same formula: The role is pitched to applicants as a fast track to a management position, in which you will be able to open your own office and be your own boss. The job starts you learning the business in “the field”, which usually entails you either going door to door in random neighborhoods and pitching a product, or pushing sales of products or services in a retail store. 

The idea is, if you sell enough or generate enough leads, you earn a promotion and take new hires under your wing to teach and train the exact same methods of door to door selling or retail store product pushing. Once you train enough successful new hires and meet certain production goals, you then attain manager status and work with the “owner” to pick out your own office space to oversee a “business” of people doing exactly the same thing to no end. However, you will probably never make it to this stage as it is not the company’s intention for you to get there. These jobs are very commonly commission only, so staying on the bottom tier of the management training is not sustainable. These jobs only provide a vague notion of what it would be like to start your own business, and do not provide any of the logistics or structure that would be necessary to actually prepare you to do so. Workplaces of this nature often have titles with suffixes like “management group” and can seem legit at first given they always seem to work with big name brands for anything from home remodeling to cable television. 

Most of these offices are all owned by the same parent company “Smart Circle” and there is a great documentary about these scam workplaces and the experience that employees and individuals that made it to the ownership level have had. The term “devilcorp” was coined by the site chronicling these kinds of jobs and it has a lot of great resources and information as well. I will link both at the end of the post. 

I personally fell victim to one of these jobs due to being desperate for employment in early 2020 and having an “any port in a storm” kind of attitude. I did not see any posts pertaining to this in the sub so if this is deemed not useful or not relevant to the sub please feel free to remove it. 

[Smart Circle Documentary (YouTube)](https://youtu.be/wyCRzBt7GuY)

[Devilcorp Site (Wordpress)](https://thedevilcorp.wordpress.com/)

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/vy3pr1/
author:Matt-Vincent
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:2586
numComments:109
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True