title:
YSK: Why dental cleaning is recommended by vets, and why "anesthetic free cleanings" are a scam

content:
Why YSK: This applies to both cats and dogs, as both require dental care. However, most of this will talk about dogs as people are more likely to treat them (sadly) and anesthetic free dentals are usually marketed towards dogs, not cats.

Additionally I will be discussing "gold standard" care, hopefully all things that a reputable clinic will offer and perform. 

First, why do vets seem so concerned about dental cleanings? Is it all about money? No! Teeth are often forgotten about, heck even human insurance considers them extra special bones. But in reality dental disease is incredibly common, and can lead to systemic disease and organ involvement. Anyone who has ever had a toothache also knows that tooth pain is some of the worst pain out there. Dogs, and especially cats, are very good at hiding that pain however, and so may be suffering without you even knowing it. Tooth problems can lead to eating problems as well. 

That's great and all, but why do vets seem so pushy on anesthetic cleanings? And why are they so darn expensive??

When you go to the dentist, you can communicate with them and them with you. You sit in a chair and open your mouth. Cats and dogs can't do that. It's a stressful situation, and a dangerous one for techs and doctors. A dog or cat bite can cause permanent damage. So we place them under anesthesia, which requires an IV catheter and monitoring. 

Edit: I'm not sure where to add this so here it is added. All procedures carry risks. Your vet should discuss these risks with you and perform proper risk assessment before (i.e bloodwork). Properly performed anesthesia in a healthy animal should carry less risks than we often think. Again, always discuss with a veterinarian 

An important note about teeth. Dog and cat teeth, are different than ours. Dogs have much deeper roots, you can't just pull out a tooth. It's a surgical procedure. And dental disease isn't just the tarter you see on the outside of the tooth, it affects the roots and jaw as well, things you can't see on the outside. That's why most places will take dental radiographs to make sure there isn't any problems that can't be seen outside the naked eye. 

So now you can start to see why a "simple cleaning" get so expensive. It includes, IV catheters, usual part time hospitalization, medications, anesthesia, anesthetic monitoring, xrays. And if you need a tooth pulled, now it's surgery.

But you say, I still don't have 1k to spend, even if I wanted to (trust me \*I get it\*) but this holistic vet is offering sonic cleaning for 100 dollars and my pet doesn't have to risk anesthesia. It's better than nothing right?

eh, no. Above I talked about how you can't really tell a dog or cat what to do, and it also puts the person who's hands are in your pets mouth at risk. This doesn't change just because of the fancy sonic cleaner. You still won't be able to get a deep clean, and it only gets the visible tarter off, which isn't even the problem. It cannot fix: cavities, root problems, abscesses, restorative lesions, diagnose jaw cancer, fix fistulas, broken teeth, extract teeth, and more.

You can brush your own pets teeth and get the same result. 

The best form of dental care is a full dental done at a reputable vet. This is not a post saying you're a bad owner if you can't afford one. Rather hopefully this explained why dentals are important and why they're so expensive as there is a lot of misconceptions about this growing field. 

Sources: 

[https://www.avma.org/resources-tools/pet-owners/petcare/pet-dental-care](https://www.avma.org/resources-tools/pet-owners/petcare/pet-dental-care)

[https://www.aaha.org/your-pet/pet-owner-education/ask-aaha/Anesthesia-and-Dental-Cleaning/](https://www.aaha.org/your-pet/pet-owner-education/ask-aaha/Anesthesia-and-Dental-Cleaning/)

and me! 5 years in the veterinary field, working along side a registered veterinary dentist, current vet student!

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/w4q87z/
author:msmoonpie
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:7610
numComments:476
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True