title:
LPT: Write a message to yourself before you leave to the future.

content:
Schedule emails, use a diary or record yourself.

The past is a door: you meet it, you open it and you close it. You effortlessly move from room to room, and most times you shut that door.

Sometimes you look back and wonder. What did I feel back then? How did I do that? But you've trudged so far on through the rooms, and your memory does not serve you as well anymore.

You are made up of the people you've been. You cannot talk to them, but they make your every move. You cannot think their thoughts, but their thoughts make you think. You are reading this, and you will ultimately become your future self. 

Before you get shoved into the attic of your brain, leave a message. You have the ability to communicate to the future. With an email. With a diary. With a recording. 

I write down my important thoughts on a document. I write them thinking, in a short moment, my future self will read it. And when I really do, I take a break from looking forward. I look behind, and I can step back, stay in that experience. I am my best writer. I can flawlessly convey emotion to my future self. Because I am who I was. And you are too.

Start by recording things after valuable experiences. Your thoughts are more important. Memories fuel you. There will be one day when you start losing the thoughts that really matter.

Online text is probably the most durable source of nostalgia you have. Trust me, you will look back and remember yourself.

Maybe this is a just message to me. To show my future self. It is 23:09 in Korea, and I know that the next time I will read this, I will be somewhere else. Somewhere entirely different. I will be someone else. But I am still here, looking forward at you. You can see me, but I can't. Until the future, goodbye.

TL;DR: use a journal, recording, email etc. to reflect and remember. Your future self will thank you.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/w9fuqb/
author:rohhyunj
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:2678
numComments:128
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True