title:
LPT: If you are young and worried about your future, become an electrician/join the trades.

content:
It's a better life and better wage than most. You won't deal with assholes who think their latte is worth yelling at anyone over. You'll get good pay, especially as there is shortage of people in the trades. There isn't a shortage of service workers and that's part of why those jobs tend to suck. 

You'll be in a Union, which means a living wage that gives you more than just getting by, excellent health care, and the ability to plan a future.

Don't want to work the trades all your life? No worries. A good job in the trades can help you pay for community College and avoid crippling debt, or at least allow you to pay for rent/food/books as you do.

Are you POC/LGBTQ+ and worried about racists and homophobia? They're out there, but most good companies don't care, and most people in the trades are solid folks who just want you to not get them injured and show up on time. The nost grizzled fucking guy is ever met was superintendent on multi-story buildings who would break anyone in half, took no shit, gave respect, and spoke openly about his husband. God help anyone who gave him any homophobic crap because they probably can't talk.

The trades represent a different kind of economic power, and a lot of respect. Not kidding. 

My good friend D, a lesbian, wanted to become an electrician but was worried about being accepted. It took her about two days to realize she was more than welcome and could live that dream. 

She bought her first house two years later. Sadly, she died of breast cancer this past February but she went out having lived her dreams with her love by her side. That's what economic power and stability can do for you. 

All my love, and be well.

EDIT: my primary purpose was to encourage youth, but I'm in my 40s and what I wrote applies to anyone: you can make that shift if it's something you want to do. I'm a single parent and I can maintain a 2br home for myself and my kid. In this world I consider that a fucking miracle and I want that for anyone out there experiencing instability and fear of the future. 

In fact, the older you are the more you'll be liked because you are older and "get" shit. Age translated into an aware presence is fucking gold.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/wbj3ep/
author:LaPyramideBastille
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:36470
numComments:3511
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True