title:
LPT: Former Flight Attendant Shares Packing and Suitcase Tips

content:
Put your contact information into every single bag you are checking,  in every exterior pocket as well as interior. Bags can get torn to bits in the machines that move the bags, the conveyor belts can tip them to the ground, and more. Better they have a way to contact you. 
 
Fragile Items need to go in the center of the suitcase, not the bottom or the top. That way, if your bag is loaded standing or laying down in the cargo hold, your fragile items have a chance of making it to the destination. 

Get a proper suitcase lock. Not one of those little crap locks from the dollar store that can literally be opened with a strong pull or a nail clipper. Not everyone at the airline is honest. 

Suitcase cover. Get them from Amazon or wherever. Get the tackiest, brightest one you can find, not the basic black.  Makes identifying your bag easier,  and for those who are wanting to steal your stuff, a little longer to get at. Same for car seats. They are sold to keep the bag clean, but to me they are a defense layer. 

Take photos of valuables, such as electronics and similar even if you are carrying the bag onto the plane. Also take pictures of the suitcase. Note the brand, too. You'll need that info if your bag is lost.

Address labels. I get it. No one writes letters anymore.  Get some. Put them on the underside of your suitcase,  etcetera.  Why? If someone accidentally grabs your bag, you can point to the address label on the bottom. 

Get rid of all of the past trip zebra strips on your luggage. We get it, you've been to other places in the world. Don't make the baggage handlers job any harder by having to figure out which tug to send your bag to. I'm addition, the top of your suitcase should not be a place for all the tags and decor. That is stuff the conveyor belts can grab and destroy your bag. Don't use yarn or ribbon either. Same reason. 

Check your wheels, zippers and handles on the bag. Don't make last minute repairs hoping everything will be OK. Either get it repaired or replaced before your trip.

Don't over pack your bag. Your bag will be in a cargo hold with literal tons of other bags. Weight on the outside and weight on the inside may be a recipe for disaster. 

Keep your bag with you and next to your body at all times. I have personally stopped countless people from trying to take someone else's bag at the airport. If you have a carry-on with you and you are sitting somewhere like a restaurant,  bags go in a seat or under the table. Never use a restaurant provided bag storage place!!!!! If you are seated in the terminal, the bags go under your knees, not to your side. 

Liquids. You can take any liquid with you in the ziploc bag with your carry on. I have taken liquor mini's with me to carry home for friends, in the original bottle, (on my personal travel.) I have carried chocolate syrup for use at an ice cream bar at the airport that never has any, I have carried hydrogen peroxide for use of undergarments during my period, I have carried homemade maple syrup and honey from a friend, countless things. 

Don't check your medicine, whether it is over the counter or prescription.  Flights get delayed, bags get lost, stuff happens. Carry your medicine.

Whether you are checking a bag or not, get to the airport in time for you to process through security as well as your bag.  If the cabin is full, you may have to check your bag at the gate.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/whvbgx/
author:bestcrispair
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:6229
numComments:421
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True