title:
YSK that you don't have to be great at a hobby to keep doing it.

content:
Examples: art, gardening (RIP for the plants that don't make it, but it can be a learning experience), woodworking, singing, cooking/baking (some ingredients may or may not be sacrificed in the name of learning), and pretty much any other hobby that can be had.

Why YSK: There's so much pressure to be "highlight reel" or entrepreneurs that the hobby becomes a responsibility or source of stress. But a hobby can be just that: a hobby. It's an activity or practice that you enjoy doing for fun. You don't have to be perfect or an expert or sell something to keep doing it. 

If you think you suck at painting but love it: keep painting! Your writing doesn't make sense? Keep writing! You only sing in the shower (cuz let's be honest, the acoustics are better)? Keep singing! Can't wear what you sew? Keep sewing!

You don't have to commercialize your hobby. You don't have to be a level 9000 expert at your hobby. You don't have to post your hobby online. Sure, share if you'd like - just don't forget that your hobby is for *you*.

Enjoy the process. Notice your headspace when you're engaging in your hobby. Your hobby is yours.

Yes, sometimes it's also a passionate career. Sometimes you can monetize it as a side hustle, or even turn it into a thriving business. Both are great! But if you don't want to, or can't, THAT'S 158953% GREAT TOO! Don't let the idea of being an expert/making money off of your hobby ruin your love of the activity.

Edit to add: a fellow Redditor commented that there's always going to be someone that's better than you at something. It's true! But if I can offer another perspective:

I wouldn't even factor in the comparison with others. I don't do my hobby to be better than someone else, I do it because it brings me joy!

If you must compare, compare with your past self. Compare how much more peaceful or efficient you've gotten with your hobby. Compare your current understanding with your comprehension from 5 years ago. Give your future self the benefit of the doubt. Always remember that no journey worth traveling is linear. 💛

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/wkkm5p/
author:dipped_stiletto
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:1634
numComments:63
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True