title:
YSK that the person you miss most after a break up is yourself

content:
Why YSK: a lot of people struggle with getting over their ex and wanting them back but it’s useful to know that regaining « self concept » is actually a better predictor of psychological well being after a break up. 


If you’re anything like me during a break up, you go online and you read ALL the trashy articles you can find to help normalise your pain and glean any little thing that will cheer you up: « Will I get over my ex? », « 27 signs your ex isn’t really over you », « 12 golden rules to boost your self esteem after a break up »… the lot. But mostly it seems that all the « good news » you can get is that if you do everything just right you might get a chance at getting back the person who literally just stomped all over your heart. If you think about it, it’s not such a great prospect… I mean, it’s kind of horrible to do that to you. If your best friend messed up your future, made a mockery of your past and made you doubt everything about your present, you wouldn’t be chomping at the bit to get them back, right? 
As we mourn the relationship, it really feels like if our ex came back, everything would slot right back into place perfectly again. That’s because, the person we’re missing the most from our relationship isn’t actually our ex… it’s ourselves. 

I know it sounds weird but it’s not really: when we enter and leave a relationship, our « self concept » changes massively, to the point that long-married couples can sometimes have trouble answering questions about their individual traits because they don’t quite know which is theirs and which is their spouse’s…

(Aron A, Aron EN, Tudor M, Nelson G. Close relationship as in including other in the self. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 1991;60:241–253.)


Because it’s not just just that we grow and experience things alongside our partners, they also reflect back an image that they’re the only ones to experience so closely and frequently, they make us see things in ourselves that we might not identify on our own (psychos tear you down with them and nice SOs build you up) 

So when we get dumped, we don’t expect that someone else can suddenly take away part of the way we define ourselves. It’s incredibly confusing. And when our brain gets confused it panics, it gets depressed,  and it looks for safety. 

And we know what safety feels like because it’s just been ripped from us along with our SO and our relationship. So we crave the safety and our sense of self back, and it cristallises on our ex. I mean, if they took it away from us, presumably they can bring it back to us. All we need to do is get them to come back. We get « stuck on love ».
And so it is that the more we feel we are still in love with an ex-partner, the more we struggle with redefining ourselves. Our love for them blinds us to who we are on our own. 
(Mason, Ashley E et al. “Facing a breakup: Electromyographic responses moderate self-concept recovery following a romantic separation.” Personal Relationships vol. 19,3 (2012): 551-568. doi:10.1111/j.1475-6811.2011.01378.)


I’m not saying to just pretend you no longer love them. Suppressing emotions doesn’t work. But, what you can do proactively is reverse the cause and effect. 
You’re mourning, you’re obsessed, that’s fine. But when you need a break from that, try getting ahold of bits of yourself. Do a thing you’re good at individually, or try something you didn’t do with them (even if it’s just a new type of sandwich), find a big mirror and really look at yourself for a bit (and be nice!), take a bath or get a massage or go to the gym. You don’t have to become a gym bunny or lose a bunch of weight, the idea is just to feel and see your own body through your own eyes, not theirs. Talk to someone who doesn’t  particularly know them or want to discuss them, watch a show you wouldn’t watch with them. You don’t have to do it all at once, and it doesn’t need to transform you overnight, and you don’t have to suddenly perform and shine at everything. 
But the more precise your idea of yourself, the less you’ll have to rely your ex’s memories and the less essential they will become for you. It won’t completely erase them, you’re not a goldfish, but it’ll help with the horrible feeling that without them you are nothing.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/wmkair/
author:Ilovvveplants
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:3004
numComments:70
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True