title:
YSK that you can take large corporations to small claims court and you may have a good chance of winning

content:
(I am **NOT** a lawyer)

Why YSK: So you don't feel powerless when a large company gives you service you're not happy with. (Not to say be a Karen. Treat companies and workers with kindness and respect at all times)

My personal example comes from buying a new truck a handful of years ago. I went to the dealership and ordered a truck from the manufacturer so it was exactly how I wanted and I wouldn't have to settle for what was in inventory. I waited the 6-8 weeks and received my truck. Beautiful new truck just a bit dusty from being delivered.

I took it home from the dealer and started the process of detailing it. One of the reasons I bought it, besides kind of needing it, was so I had something to keep nice and clean. I kept my former truck for work so it would get dirty instead.

As I was working on the paint on the outside I noticed small blemishes in the paint under the clear coat. Not easy to see but they were inside the paint and all over the truck. I wasn't happy at all especially considering what I paid. I went back to the dealership knowing full well it wasn't their fault but I had to start somewhere.

Their service manager and "auto body guy" both looked at it and agreed, the paint shouldn't be like that. They put me in touch with the auto manufacturer's regional representative and he offered me $800 in dealer accessories. I had just ordered the truck with everything I wanted so this didn't help me much. After a few weeks of talking to the rep and not getting any real offer to fix or make up for my paint, I went to my local reputable auto body shop and got an estimate to fix the paint.

Blemishes under the clear coat generally can't be "fixed", gotta repaint usually. The auto body shop said they couldn't/wouldn't try to fix it but gave me an estimate to repaint the panels with flaws for $4800.

I got nowhere with the auto rep again so I went to my local courthouse and filed a small claims with the auto manufacturer (not the dealer). The claim was filed for $6000. $4800 for the estimate and $1200 for putting up with weeks of their bullshit (a number I just pulled out of my ass).

A week before the court date I got a letter from the manufacturer's legal department offering me $4800, the amount of the estimate. I answered by the email they sent declining the offer. My counter offer was $5900 just to show them I went down but also "screw you". Two days before the court date they replied, agreed to the $5900, and sent me paperwork to sign.

The big thing is they didn't want to bother sending a representative to small claims court, wasting the the reps time and just costing money anyway. If they didn't send one then I would have won so it was easier in their eyes to just settle and write a check.

I don't get as upset at bad service or products anymore knowing at least there's a chance things can be made right.

-- Do not take legal advice from me. I am not a lawyer --
-- Not financial advice. Past performance is not a guarantee of future results--
-- Your milage may vary--
-- Typed on my phone. Please excuse spelling and grammar --
-- Have a great weekend! --

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/x44ii0/
author:-ondo-
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:10401
numComments:275
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True