title:
LPT How to be happy

content:
About 5 years ago I had a really profound experience. Without going into detail, what I took away from it is comparable from what I understand a near death experience does to some people. An epiphany if you will, and it changed my life. Maybe not my day to day. It didn't change the car I drive or the place I call home, but it did change my life and my mind completely. 

I learned that happiness, like anything in life takes work. You have to be persistent, deliberate, and habitual about your positivity to really achieve happiness. When it's not how you really feel, you fight for that positivity anyway all the way up until you're smiling.

What I realized is 3 things that matter more than anything else in life:

1) Staying positive on even the worst days will not only keep you going, but it will keep you growing, and stagnation will lead to unhappiness.

2) Inhibitions and worry are the most dangerous things to give into. It's just fear, nothing else. Push against this feeling of inhibition every day. We have a unique gift of life. The odds of being alive are unimaginably small. Remember this each day. Go do and be the things you want to do and be every chance you get.

3) Trying your best might be draining sometimes, but at the end of the day it feels amazing, and by doing your best, and spreading your positivity you will impact the world and other people's lives positively, much more than you even realize at the time.

I wasn't going to post this at first, but if these principles are enough to help even just one person outside of myself, I'll be happy that I pushed aside my inhibition and shared these thoughts that have been profoundly helpful to me in life, happiness, and even have brought me financial success. 

The mind is an extremely powerful tool. Nuture yours to become the best and happiest version of yourself.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/x9vb9t/
author:Oshester
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:2728
numComments:338
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True