title:
YSK birds prefer walking to flying

content:
Why YSK: As someone who rescues birds, I see a lot of misinformed comments from people about how it is “sad” birds are kept in homes, because birds are “meant” to fly, and being able to fly is what makes them free. 

Whilst humans do seem to have taken birds and other flighted creatures (butterflies etc) as a symbol of our own limited idea of freedom, you should know that birds don’t actually like flying that much. 

Most birds prefer walking (or hopping, climbing and running) to flying because it consumes much less energy to perform. Unless flying serves a specific purpose (migration, hunting, or escaping a predator), most birds will avoid flying when they can. 

Scientists have discovered in recent years that birds make decisions to walk or to fly to a food source based on whichever gives them the most energy in the long term.

Energy conservation is much more critical to birds than it is to humans. Well-fed humans could live for weeks without eating; a bird has to feed ­almost daily, making an effective feeding routine essential. Flying uses up energy at 10 times the rate of walking or hopping, so ground-feeding birds avoid flying if foraging over short distances – this is why feral ­pigeons in towns walk out of your way, and only fly if rushed at.

When it comes to escaping from predators, birds will definitely fly away immediately if you come too near. 

This is called the Flight Initiation Distance (FID). This distance is basically like the comfort zone of birds, being the distance that a bird first perceives danger and flies away when approached by humans.

If you are outside of a bird’s FID, then it’s likely they will prefer to walk quickly away or run away, but when you step within it, birds will prefer to fly away instead.

Whilst birds should be given ample flight time (my rescues have a whole room to themselves, as do many other pet birds), keeping a bird in a home where it has lots of time to run around, play with friends and access food and water safely is much more important to that bird’s mental well-being than being able to fly across the world. 

Whilst humans see birds as primarily flight animals, it is more appropriate to see them as flock animals - their biggest priority is staying safe, with their flock, not being able to upend their lives and fly just because they feel like it 

[https://birdingoutdoors.com/do-birds-prefer-flying-or-walking-answered/](https://birdingoutdoors.com/do-birds-prefer-flying-or-walking-answered/)

EDIT: since there’s a lot of confusion, I am going to clarify two points. 

1. “Birds prefer walking to flying” is not the same as saying “Birds do not like flying”. Of course birds like flying. Given the choice, however, most species of birds will choose to walk rather than fly in the same way most humans walk to work, instead of sprinting. 

2. “Birds prefer walking to flying” is not the same as saying “Birds do not need to fly”. Birds do need to fly. Birds who are kept in a cage 24/7 and are not able to exercise and fly regularly develop severe mental and physical problems. No one who cares about animals would look consider keeping a bird caged 24/7 acceptable. 

The point of this post is not to suggest birds hate flying or that it is not necessary - it is to challenge some of the misconceptions about birds, their natural behaviour, and the ideas we as humans impose on birds without taking the time to fully understand or observe them. The idea that being able to fly around the world is the ultimate symbol of freedom is a very human one, and one that does not necessarily reflect natural life.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/xgoy7h/
author:kittywenham
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:18185
numComments:434
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True