title:
YSK most garden stores, especially big box stores, sell invasive plants

content:
Why YSK? Invasive plants will out compete and replace native species and contribute to the die out of native pollinators and disrupt ecosystems. Often times people believe that if they plant flowers of any kind then they will feed and benefit pollinators but that's not always the case. Native bugs have specific needs, not only for the specific amounts of nectar and pollen provider by native plants, but also for host plants for their larvae, and many feed on bugs that attack native plants. 

If you want to support pollinators and bugs of all kinds from your local area then please don't buy plants at random. Invasives are often present at stores but many (yes even the big ones) will carry natives and nativars as well. Wildflower.org can help you identify what's native to your area if you're in the US, and looking for small locally owned garden centers is often a good way to find native plants (plus supporting your local business!). 

If this post makes you sad because you really love how -insert plant here- looks, know that a lot of invasive species have natives that looks VERY similar. Native plants also require much less care and require much less water. Many will be self sufficient expect in the case of drought after the first 2 years of establishment.

Edit: for clarification, non-native plants are not automatically invasive. Invasive means they will overtake and choke out other plants. There are plenty of great non-native plants and I am definitely not trying to demonize those. I mentioned in a comment that I love irises so I have a patch in my front yard. They are not invasive here and do quite well in my climate. They're right next to natives and do not outcompete them. Of course I'd generally recommend native plants because they are the best for your environment and will save you loads in watering and weeding, but I'm not trying to villainize non-native plants, only invasives!

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/y1o9f4/
author:Punchasheep
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:2060
numComments:111
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True