title:
LPT: When your loved one is close to the end be aware that in most cases it isn’t the peaceful way it’s depicted in movies. Be prepared to go to therapy if you plan to be there at the end.

content:
For most here this probably won’t be something you deal with more then a handful of times in your life. Which is why I think it’s important to know what  your potentially walking into and the shit that follows you afterwards. I lost my dad three years ago to lymphoma/complications from it. Ive watched my brother fall into serious addiction issues, my mom never really recover and only in the last year have I finally come to peace with what I saw. I hope that this will encourage anyone whose about to go through this with a loved one to go to therapy and not turn straight to something like drugs or alcohol. 

For context I’ve seen or immediately arrived after my grandfather passed and it was similar to what you kinda expect from pop culture, Breath slip and drift off. However if your about to lose a loved one whose battling a disease like a cancer be prepared for a very jarring and potentially drawn out experience. 

With my dad for the last 12 hours of his life he fought for every breath, and when I say fought I mean like gasp, cough and vomit blood and have to call emergency services. All to be told they can’t do anything except to give him more morphine. In his final few minutes he began to panic as he realized this was it. He looked at my mom, my brother and I and shed tears. Then as he slipped away his body expelled blood from his mouth. The entire experience still haunts me to this day, I remember every moment perfectly clearly and whenever I do I break down a little bit that he had to go through that. My mom will call me and wonder if she did enough, was she strong for him at the end, which is it’s own kind of heartbreaking. My brother couldn’t cope and has since become addicted to drugs. 

I’d strongly encourage all to go to grief counseling, I did about 6 months later and was able to settle myself and stop drinking away pain. RIP dad miss ya everyday

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/y1smhu/
author:SFW_shade
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:57454
numComments:2803
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True