title:
LPT: Be Careful with your "casual conversations" at work. Other people can use those seemingly innocent comments you said against you.

content:
I just witnessed something unacceptable at work which made me more conscious of what I say at or near the workplace.

The story was my work mates were out for a break walk, they were discussing and ranting about their work. They walked past my supervisor's assistant office and she overheard everything and reported to the supervisor. My office is also close to the assistant and I could overhear some amount of the conversation. 

2 weeks later, the supervisor had a private meeting with my work mates and gave them a 2-week notice of firing. It was very devastating to them. I also felt pretty angry and irritated at how childishly my supervisor acted. This makes me more conscious of what I talk, say, discuss, or rant at or even near the workplace. 

Be conscious you guys! Good luck!

EDIT: Someone said that my supervisor's action was not childish. First of all, you don't know what my work mates were discussing. Second of all, the supervisor did NOT do his due diligence in listening to both sides before making the decision. He only heard the story from the assistant's side and who knows if she already had some negative opinions about them.

EDIT #2: Some people asked why the 2-week termination? It is a tactic used by employers to induce voluntary resignation from employees, so that the employers won't have to pay unemployment benefits. My workmates quit on the spot. They didn't wait 2 weeks to be terminated by the employer. Again, a dick (but smart) move from the employer.

EDIT #3: Holy WOOD! Thank you so much for the support and very informative discussions from this amazing community! I didn't expect that this small lesson I learnt could be so beneficial to a lot of peeps 😊

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/y3d1m5/
author:letstradeshallwe
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:5406
numComments:337
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True