title:
YSK: Surveys submitted after live chats and calls in call centres effect the individual and their bonus, and rarely ever get looked at by the company as a whole

content:
Why YSK: The people you interact with are usually in a low paid/minimum wage jobs and are just trying to keep afloat. If you call a company, they are just there to help and likely don't even agree with what the company is doing. Being angry at them won't help you and will make their likely already crappy day worse

When asked to complete surveys about your service, anything that isn't scored as a 9 or 10 is usually considered negative and will go against them earning a performance bonus. If a call or chat advisor has done everything they can and you still aren't happy, remember it's the company who has done this, not that individual who did what they could to resolve the issue. The people you speak too are there to clean up the mess of companies who have poor systems and practices in place and will be equally annoyed for you that something stupid has happened that has cause you bother.

If you're talking with a company multiple times, don't take your frustration out on the one person who resolved your issue. They probably aren't even in the same office as the last 2/3/4 people you spoke to. 

We are going through a tough time right now and the people at the bottom of the pile are probably struggling enough as it is. No need to make things worse when a small bonus can really make all the difference.

Edit: Something else to consider - if you are on chat with a company and they ask you to call in, don't flip your lid be cause they can't help you. Huge companies have different specialist departments for a reason and it's often not realistic for some queries to be resolved over chat. You wouldn't complain in a supermarket that a worker on the deli counter can't help you choose your cut of fish from the fish monger. If a team specialises in bills and can't help you because you want to take out a new package, that's not on them when you haven't followed the correct channels to get to the right teams. A 5 minute check on your side can save you wasting time waiting in queues to contact the wrong team

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/y4igwd/
author:SmokeySprigs
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:3152
numComments:139
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True