title:
LPT: If you're young and/or broke, set boundaries with Xmas presents this year.

content:
The idyllic times of splurging on Xmas presents would do well to reflect current economic realities. People aren't just going to struggle with heating their homes this winter, they're going to struggle with having homes to heat at all. Extravagant Xmas' were fair game when people had economic security, but it's untenable now, and our attitudes can change to reflect it.

The concept of buying each other meaningless plastic junk has to stop. It's the same for so many people, a month of stress leading up to Xmas, spending what little money we have to buy people with more money some plastic junk they never use and throw in a box somewhere.

By all means, share and shower loved ones and strangers with gratitude. Let people know how much they mean to you in a card, make a small home-made gift. If you have kids, sure you want it to be special, just be sensible, don't sacrifice their upcoming year for a few minutes of present opening excitement.

Please, set boundaries, take care of yourselves, and spend less.

I did this last year. I rang my family members and suggested a no present Xmas, where we just ate and watched movies and chilled for a day. We all had a better Xmas than usual because we didn't have the stress of searching for presents, the stress of wondering if our gift was good enough, the duty to make it look as though we love the irrelevant corporate gift. We're doing it again this year, and we couldn't be more excited to have extra free time in the month leading up to Xmas, to, you know, actually rest and celebrate.

For other people, offer them the gift of not having to search and pay for a gift for you, and vice versa. If you like, consider using the money you all save to create a memorable experience together. I dunno about you but I tend to remember the times we did things with each other than the things we felt obligated to buy each other.

Every year I see people struggle all through December broke and stressed, spending the first quarter of the year trying to get back on a level footing.

It's not being grinchy, or mean, or unkind to do this...it's freedom, for others and for yourself. What's grinchy is someone expecting you to buy them something they don't explicitly need because of a timed annual obligation that has been totally co-opted by corporate entities. Especially if you're broke and they're not.

Boundaries are beautiful things.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/y72n86/
author:UnexpectedAmy
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1265
numComments:73
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True