title:
YSK: Always take solo pictures when on holiday/vacation, as well as your group/partner pics.

content:
Why YSK: You never know the circumstances for which you might use the pictures. I’m not saying you should prepare to separate from a partner, but that could happen, or you simply might want them for a professional project that only includes yourself. Cheers.

Edit: Just to clarify, I am not suggesting that you prepare for your relationship to end. This is not a suggestion so you have some sort of insurance ‘just in case your relationship ends.’ If you thought I was recommending that you plan for bad things, please forgive my wording. As I said in one reply, get photos with your travel partner(s), get photos of yourself, and get shots of the place without you in the photo so you have a variety of options. _There’s nothing wrong with wanting or having pictures of just you_, and it’s not inherently unhealthy for you to want solo shots, so please ease up on the assumptions about my situation. Plenty of people have portraits or solo pics of their sweetheart or themselves—that’s actually pretty normal. Lol. 

Also, for those asking, I’m in a longterm, thriving relationship with a person who agrees with my suggestion—she would make her opinion quite clear if she didn’t. Haha. 

Lastly, no, there may not be anything wrong with having a work photo with others in it, just like there’s nothing wrong with just you being in it. I take responsibility for not fully explaining my meaning, so I appreciate your grace, and ask for you to consider that my meaning with this is positive. :)

Edit 2: I am participating in a professional development opportunity that asked for photos as part of the getting-to-know portion of an upcoming retreat. Some of my travel pics were with people that are not relevant to that part of my story, so I thought I’d share that I’ll take a few more pics on future trips. There is nothing more to it than that. I am friends with my ex and I’m in happy, lasting relationship.

Last Edit: I appreciate those who understood the spirit and experience behind this post. To the trolls who lack social skills: you need a hug. Have a great weekend, everyone!

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/y9yc8t/
author:No_Bar_1090
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:5590
numComments:133
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True