title:
LPT: If you're wanting to try for a baby, budgeting for the baby before you start trying really puts things in perspective.

content:
Quick edit: this is not me trying to convince or unconvince anyone to have a baby. That is a 100% personal choice.

What I mean by budget is just to say kids are expensive. Include daycare, essential items, insurance, and basically anything else you might be able to think of. Have money in your savings for unexpected expenses. And not just for the child either. Save for unexpected expenses for you and/or your spouce/partner 

Also budget more than just money. You're going to have to budget time and space. Practical practices can put you in a more practical perspective. Your patience is more likely than not to stretch thinner than your wallet. If you want kids these are things that will have to be sacrificed but as is the nature of sacrifices, things sacrificed will become things gained.

Babies also grow up into kids, and kids to teens. You'll spend money on different things but you'll still be spending it on them. Spending on things you think will be cute or fun that a baby/toddler wont remember and really detail finances when you need that money later in the child's life. Your baby is only a baby for so long such as a puppy will eventually grow into a dog.

Be prepared to blow your budget. You are a human after all and cant think of everything. However, if this is something you really want to do just know that if you wait until you have enough money to have a child, you'll never have a child. Don't wait forever, you'll get through it.

And one last thing, depending on the country, there's almost always assistance avaible. However, use things as a crutch when you need them, not a prosthetic leg. Food banks are wonderful and many places let babies/ kids in for free under a certain age. My parents actually survived financial drowning because a buffet near by let kids 2 and under eat free, of which my parents had 3 of.

Think but dont over think, much love to those with kids and those trying. Love to everyone else too but y'know I'm not talking to you lol.

Edit 2: "if you wait until you have enough money, you'll never do it" doesnt mean dont need enough to support everybody who you need to. It means that you dont need to have enough money for the child's entire life. People are saying that if they had all the money in an account rather than spending it on children that they'd then have enough money to buy a house. If you have that sort of money, good on ya.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/ybgfhz/
author:0taterfry0
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:30294
numComments:1930
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True