title:
YSK: The worst turbulence has a plane dropping only about 40 feet. It feels much worse than it actually is.

content:
Why YSK: I was inspired to post this by a video in another thread. The plane is bouncing horrendously and people are screaming in fear. I get it. It's scary and my family members are terrified of flying. The thing is, the physical sensation is entirely misleading.

I asked a pilot friend what I could do to calm them down and he sent me the article I've linked to "Ask A Pilot: Everything you need to know about turbulence." They key point that I always remember is that the worst turbulence he ever felt was only a forty-foot drop, even though it felt to the passengers like they were in life-threatening danger. Here is what he wrote:

"Passengers might feel the plane “plummeting” or “diving” — words the media can’t get enough of — when in fact it’s hardly moving. I remember one night, headed to Europe, hitting some unusually rough air about halfway across the Atlantic. It was the kind of turbulence people tell their friends about. Fewer than forty feet of altitude change, either way, is what I saw. Ten or twenty feet, if that, most of the time. Any change in heading—the direction our nose was pointed—was all but undetectable. "

The way I think about it now is that turbulence feels like a rollercoaster to the passengers but it's more like driving on a gravel road. It's bumpy as hell but means absolutely nothing to the aircraft.


https://askthepilot.com/questionanswers/turbulence/

Edit: so many comments and likes! I had no idea this would happen. I want to add that my point isn't that turbulence doesn't feel bad or that people don't get hurt if they aren't buckled in. I thought YAK that you're not in danger and the plane isn't going to crash. Disliking the sensation is one thing. Screaming and praying because you think you're going to die, is another. It's the latter group I was trying to address, people who find turbulence scary instead of unpleasant.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/yfmzuc/
author:Participant_Zero
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:13102
numComments:791
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True