title:
YSK Seeing Your Pets at the Vet Takes a Minimum of 20-45 Minutes

content:
Seeing your pet for "a quick look" or "quick listen" takes on average 15-45 minutes. From the time it takes for check-in, your technician/assistant to review records and talk to you, the doctor's time, diagnostics, treatments and check out the "quick visit" takes time. 

Why YSK: As of late, most veterinary facilities are scheduled a few to several weeks ahead of time. There is a shortage of veterinarians and veterinary staff. Veterinarians and veterinary staff are great people and will do a lot for your pet. I have purposely stayed several hours late to help out a pet in need, worked through my lunch and have over 40 scars on just my arms from scratches and bites of pets who were getting the care they did not know they needed. Everyone in your veterinary hospital/clinic has done this. So when you call in and are told that the next availability is in 4 weeks, that means there is little to no time to see your pet. At our facility, a veterinarian sees approximately 30-40 pets in the span of 10 hours. This ends up being about 15-20 minutes per pet. Does this time account for pets who try to bite/scratch? Does this account for "I forgot to mention my pet has not been eating for the last month" clients? Does this account for "my dog is extremely sick and will die but I have no money" visits? Of course not. So trying to fit in your pet to "take a quick look" is very difficult because your clinic literally does not have enough people OR time. When you ask your veterinary hospital/clinic for an appointment they will do their best to get you in. If they can't they will offer several options such as trying to get seen at another clinic or going to an emergency clinic. So please don't act like an entitled jerk and demand to be seen because you've "been going there for years." We'd love to see you but your pet needs the attention it deserves. Please don't ask your staff to cancel other appointments to "fit you in." Please don't tell your staff they're jerks for not seeing you. Please don't tell your staff they don't care about your pet. It sucks, we get it. We don't want you to go to the emergency clinic either because they're expensive and you'll be waiting a long time. The emergency clinics and other clinics/hospitals are there for a reason. You don't go to your dermatologist if you broke your arm. Veterinarians do all the things and they can't do all the things all the time. So just keep that in mind when you're calling your veterinary office because your pet is sick.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/ypm7ze/
author:parguello90
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:4091
numComments:166
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True