title:
LPT: there's a tipping point for men whereby wearing T-shirts, jogger pants, and running shoes actually make you look a lot older.

content:
When I retired early three years ago, I (57 yo) started dressing more casually.  First started with cotton joggers (...no fly to pull up!) and nice pair of Addidas with a T shirt.  I suddenly felt more cool, casual and in charge of my life.  This became my daily look.

Two weeks ago, I passed by a mirror in the mall and saw myself for what I've become...a shleppy grey haired old man.  Sad thing is, it didn't have to go this way.

This week, I've tried to dress better in good fitting jeans, button shirts, and sweaters and feel 10x better.  Everyone says I also look more "fresh".

This isn't to say you shouldn't wear those clothes; for younger guys it's age appropriate and they can get away with a lot of different looks.  But for obviously older guys this can become a slippery slope and should consider where that look is  appropriate.

Old man is back to business!

Edit:  Just back home and surprised at amount of comments.  When I say dressing better, all I mean is one step higher than the clothes you wear on  Sunday morning where you dont care how you look.  Clothes like jeans, sweaters, nicer shirts other than T shirts. 

It's not a matter of trying to impress anyone else.  I'm retired and mostly home with my beautiful wife and no need to impress her anymore (ha!).  What's wrong with trying to look groomed to feel better for myself?

I was starting to go down a path of wearing mismatched clothes with holes in them.  The next step after that would be wiping my mouth after dinner on my shirt sleeve :).

As I said, it's a slippery slope.

Edit:  to clarify, wearing any one item is no problem at all.  When I think about it, the real tipping point was when I wore the T shirt, cotton joggers, running shoes plus my newest regular addition - a zippered hoodie - all at the same time.  Any younger guy can carry it of, but at 57 with my grey hair, aging skin and older build, it just made me look even older.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/ypsje2/
author:Mondood
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:6345
numComments:362
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True