title:
LPT: If you’re sexually assaulted, call a hospital to find the nearest ER that does sexual assault exams/evidence collection

content:
You should still go to an ER even if you don’t want to report to police to make sure you’re okay, but here’s more tips if you do want to report. Thanks to user att3e3a for adding that exams can be done (and evidence collected) up to 72 hours after the assault, and even if you’ve eaten/showered/etc, evidence can still be collected. Also, STI/pregnancy prevention may still be available after 72 hours. 

—If the assault involved your mouth, don’t eat or drink anything. 
Don’t shower or use the restroom if possible (if you have to pee, drip dry a bit and then put your underwear back on). 
—If there’s a chance you were able to scratch your attacker, don’t wash your hands (DNA may be under your nails). 
—Don’t change clothes if possible (if you do, bring the original clothes you were assaulted in to the ER- per comments, in a paper bag or pillow case to preserve evidence, not a plastic bag). Clothing may be taken as evidence with your consent, you may not get it back. 
—If you’re on your period, bring any pads/tampons from during/after the assault to the ER. 


This is all stuff I’ve learned working with SANEs (Sexual Assault Nurse Examiners) and survivors that I wish was common knowledge.

Edit: Thank you for the awards!! Also thank you to everyone sharing more advice! As a disclaimer, I work in Texas so some (all?) if this may differ based on state/country. Hopefully at least some of it translates to where you are or you now know to look into your area’s options/resources. Most(?) areas have sexual assault advocacy groups/centers that can help survivors with many assault-related things, so it may be a good idea to be familiar with them in case you or someone you know needs help in the future. 

More Texas specific info: the SA exam (with or without evidence collection - swabs/photos/etc) is covered by the state, but STI/pregnancy prevention is run through health insurance and may not be completely covered. Survivors can apply for Crime Victims Compensation to get reimbursed for the rest ONLY IF they report the assault to law enforcement. If you are a minor and present to the ED for SA, it is considered a mandatory report for the hospital, BUT you do not have to consent to evidence collection and you do NOT have to participate in the investigation. If you want to have evidence collected, but aren’t sure you want to report, they will collect it and store it and you have up to 5 years to choose to report. Once reported, cases can take years, or sometimes decades, to be heard in court. Not all reported sexual assaults go to court.

Edit 2: To clarify, if you have been assaulted (and you’re not a minor) it is completely your decision whether to report or not!! You know what is right for you. The MOST important thing is that you’re safe and taken care of. Sometimes the best thing for your safety and mental health is not to report, and that is 100% okay. That being said, I would still ask you to seek medical attention as soon after the assault as possible because trauma/adrenaline can mask pain and you may be injured more than you realize. As a side note, many SAs don’t cause any physical injuries, but that in no way negates them as SAs.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/z0pih9/
author:deviateddragon
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:12563
numComments:297
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True