title:
YSK, if you (or your kids) ever have a health class in high school and some group comes to give an anti-drug speech that is named Narconon, realize that it's all bullshit and a scam run to introduce kids to Scientology at a young age.

content:
Years back when I was in junior high, our Health class had speakers from an anti-drug Narconon group come to class.  In this talk, they used an accepted anti-drug message to try and tell us blatant lies about drugs and sprinkle in gateway terms used in Scientology.  Throughout the talk, they would talk about Dianetics and tell us the bullshit that "drugs are stored in our fat".  They also tried to convince us that "when drugs are released from our fat that causes flashbacks", which is a complete lie.  These are flat out lies.  Oddly, there were casual mentions of the book, Dianetics and certain "principles".  Dianetics is a Scientology book.  This whole talk was nothing more than a grooming attempt into Scientology concepts to familiarize kids with the ideas at a young age, shrouding hidden terms in to an accepted anti-drug message. Their sneaky attempt at planting those thoughts (lies) in our heads so that we would be more accepting of them when we hear them later on in life. Trying to make a gateway into Scientology.

A big surprise to me was when I noticed at health fairs later on when I was in college and at street fairs, there would be anti-drug groups set up in tents with Dianetics books laid out.  Talking to them, they would sprinkle in the same things from my junior high school class in their conversation.  Their goal was to get people to pick up the Dianetics book, which is nothing more than Scientology indoctrination material masquerading as a self-help book.

Those Scientology guys are just an insidious operation to plant those ideas in your head so that when you hear them again after several years, you think "oh, yeah, I think I remember hearing that before, OK." And so that you are positively inclined to concepts that are mentioned and are associated with the ones you've already heard, being more amenable to Scientology. It's all about trying to indoctrinate people into that scam known as Scientology. Fucking bastards.

By the way, if you ever go to a chiropractor's office and you see Dianetics books and Scientology pamphlets laid out with no other reading material but those, leave quickly.

The name of the group is Narconon.  Beware if those bastards come to speak at your school or your kid's school.

Why YSK: The whole approach of Scientology to get people to join is to plant concepts associated with a positive and accepted message in people's heads time after time after time (over many years).  This is so that when people are grown up, they will be accepting of the concepts in Scientology, join their "church".  Once they have joined, then the church can siphon money from them as they pay thousands for higher levels of training.  

It's a total scam posing as a religion.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/z2rd7e/
author:OneLostOstrich
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:18298
numComments:575
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True