title:
LPT: Dear novice hobbyists, not only is it okay to copy* from the more experienced, it is encouraged. It is the most enjoyable way to learn while producing end results you can be proud of.

content:
Let’s face it: there’s things you don’t know. Especially as someone entering a new hobby, there’s a lot you don’t know. But you want to know who does know? People with experience. And for the most part, the most enjoyable way to learn basic to intermediate to advanced concepts is to take the work of someone else and to dissect it and apply it to your own works. As an added bonus, you will have a much easier time creating an end product that you can feel extra proud of and motivated to continue in your efforts.

This is especially true if you can find a video or description of the creative process.

For example, if you wanted to paint a portrait, but have never done it before, I would suggest taking some portrait and copy it 1:1. It absolutely won’t look perfect, but it’s a great opportunity to learn brush control and color mixing. Then find another portrait you like and copy that. That time you might notice how the artist added a little bit of lighting or how they created some detail in anatomy. Then do it all again. That time you might learn a little bit more about color theory or how to create the focus of a painting. Meanwhile, after learning all these things, you have three pretty great portraits. Important note: this is a very exaggerated example, I *HIGHLY* doubt these things can be learned that fast.

Whether it be art, music, design, writing, or anything that requires creativity, an important thing to recognize is that new ideas these days are rare. Which is not a bad thing! It means that there is no pressure to pull something grand out of your bum for whatever it is you’re working on. Instead, put the things together that inspire you, that you love, and mixed with your own labor of love it will become something that will feel new and you can be proud of.

*Major disclaimer: turning over a 1:1 or a very close recreation of something with the intention of making a profit is plagiarism, don’t do that.

Edit: Also better to be safe than sorry by giving credit when it is due.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/z6bfyp/
author:Telkhine_
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:1578
numComments:44
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True