title:
YSK: The stages of grooming.

content:
 Why YSK:

Grooming is the process by which you are conditioned and brainwashed to accept abuse.

Abusers will often present themselves as a friend and lull you into a false sense of security, but this is all part of their scheme to normalise the abuse and continue to commit these crimes unnoticed.

Thus, many people find it almost impossible to explain or escape abuse. With groomers striking the perfect balance between causing pain and then providing relief from such pain, you can feel stuck in a perpetual cycle of cognitive dissonance.

Due to this manipulation, victims often suffer from the inability to understand or articulate the complex layers of their abuser's criminal behaviour. They believe their victim to be a friend due to the insidious process of conditioning they have endured. This is why it is so common for victims, especially child victims to protect their perpetrators.

These are the six stages of grooming that can help others increase their vigilance and report any inappropriate behaviour:

The first phase is Targeting a Victim:

First, the predator targets a particular child. This may be due to their perceived vulnerability or ease of access. Paedophiles will often target victims that are already isolated, appear insecure or have low self-esteem. Child molesters often look out for children with a lack of attachment from their families. This instability creates circumstances which are ripe for abuse.

The next stage of grooming is gaining trust:

The abuser will pose as a friend and ask a series of 'harmless questions' to get to know more about the child's home life and situation. This identifies whether they are a prime target. These questions also enable them to look for needs to exploit. The abuser offers gifts to the child and takes them on special outings that they would otherwise not get from their parents.

The Third phase of grooming revolves around the abuser filling a need:

Children who do not have such a comfortable and loving home life may appreciate the gifts, outings and feigned emotional support that they are being showered with. The child molester strives to be the sole provider of something the child wants or needs. They can act as a sympathiser, a mentor and provide a sense of love and value to the child. Therefore, the child can feel like they are an all-important part of their life that they do not want to lose.

The fourth stage is Isolating the child:

After the perpetrator has forged an attachment with the child they will slowly dissolve their target's support networks by discouraging contact with others. They may talk mockingly about and discredit the child's parents or friends. The abuser strives to compromise the child's relationships with others to solidify a close attachment between them and the child. The child internalises these messages which makes it nearly impossible to escape the abuse.

Next, the perpetrator sexualises the relationship:

They will gradually expose the child to explicit material and start to normalise sex. It may start gradually and subtly as the abuser initiates touch, for example, with hugging or tickling. A child's natural curiosity is exploited and when the abuse is actually initiated, it is less shocking. The abuser may enforce the message that this is what the child wants, making the child seem to be the one to initiate this process through coercion. This adds to the self-doubt and confusion of victims who can conclude it was their fault or their responsibility to stop it from happening.

The sixth phase of grooming is the most defining - maintaining control:

The abuser will constantly employ confusion tactics and claim that this is normal behaviour, for example, stating that they have a 'special relationship.' Predators may also threaten to take away what the child needs if they speak about what happened. A child may be sworn to secrecy for they have nowhere else to go, or may feel like they will be shunned or shamed for speaking up.

As abusers create a perpetual cycle of being the pain and providing relief from that pain, you are driven into a state of cognitive dissonance. These people are masterminds of driving you into total confusion and causing you to constantly doubt whether it is abuse or not. As they have made themselves the only ones in your life shoving a narrative down your throat, you are unable to escape and are left feeling helpless. You are trapped not only physically, but also mentally.

Edit*What you can do to help: 

- please believe your child if they reveal their abuse. Perpetrators often seem nice, charming and friendly, but this is a facade for the public eye. Often, only victims truly know who their abusers really are.

- Educate children about inappropriate and appropriate touching and teach them to recognise grooming behaviour.

- Make children and others feel comfortable to open up to you, never shame them for speaking up. 

- Learn and teach others what a healthy relationship looks like.

- Teach children about bodily autonomy and consent. Tell them they are allowed to say no if anyone, even a family member wants to touch them. (E.g., hugging)

- Remember, grooming can also happen online and children and adults must be aware of internet safety.

- also remember that groomers do not only groom victims, but also the people around them such as their family to gain access to the child. Of course not every person may be trying to prey on your children, but please be wary of adults trying to form a close relationship with your child under the guise of being a 'mentor.' 

I encourage you all to do your own research on this subject :)

[To stop abuse, we first need to understand grooming](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e61YHcYqWyo&amp;t=863s)

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/zpwjly/
author:flonmp
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:8533
numComments:486
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True