title:
LPT: Make a “gift list” on your phone starting on January 1st every year. Whenever someone you typically buy gifts for mentions something they want or need, write it down in the gift list. This way you’ll have a list of things to get that person when gift-giving season comes around.

content:
Even mentioned in passing, when they don’t think anyone is really listening or paying attention. My boss passingly mentioned she loves Dotz pretzels a few months ago, so that was included in her Christmas package this year. Works for birthdays, holidays, anniversaries, random days. Has sincerely made my life easier instead of asking myself what should I get this person? People have a habit of saying “I don’t want anything!” during the holidays. Plus, it makes it extra thoughtful when you say, “I heard you mention you needed this back in January, etc”

ETA: thanks, kind strangers! I know some people are upset I didn’t post this tip sooner, or that I didn’t post it in a few days. I’m honestly just trying to help people for next year! I was checking my list &amp; thinking how much it had helped me through the years &amp; wanted to share with all of you! 

Some people have had great other tips or helpful insights:
- Yes, most people will buy themselves things they need throughout the year. Sometimes things people consider “needed” are actually just things that make their lives more convenient &amp; aren’t everyday necessary items. If they do buy it, cross it off the list! 
- These gift ideas can be used for anything throughout the year that you celebrate: holidays, birthdays, anniversaries…and also just a random gift because you were thinking about someone. Hence starting in January, as these occasions don’t all occur at the end of the year. 
- Make a list for yourself too! That way you can actually tell people what you want when they ask instead of scrambling for an idea that doesn’t mean much. 
- Sometimes just offhand comments people make are the best nuggets of information. You don’t have to be looking at every conversation in a gift-giving perspective, but if you remember…hey, add it to the list real quick.

url:https://reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/zu7ko1/
author:rhino_pickles
subreddit:LifeProTips
score:27675
numComments:506
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True