title:
YSK: Mixed people can have children that look entirely white.

content:
Why YSK: It always seems to come as a shock whenever I tell people that my son is 100% my son. I have had it verified via DNA analysis. There seems to be a misconception that I as a mixed race man can only produce children with black features. I say this because, when I am out and about with my neices who appear more ethnically black due to my sister having a black husband, noone bats an eyelash like its expected that they are my children. But when I take my son out in public (his mom is white), who has blonde very loose curls, light blue eyes and very fair skin, I get looks like I've just kidnapped my son. When were out with the whole family, people have regularly thought that I am just a boyfriend/step-dad who's very caring of his step-son. 

I asked my other sister who's husband is from Spain and she said she never has the problem, everyone just assumes she is Hispanic/Spanish when she's with her daughter (who looks white with brown eyes/hair) and correctly assume she's mixed when she's with our neices. The exact opposite happens when my older brother who has no children goes in public with the kids. He has the exact same issue that I have. I don't know if it's a male/female thing. However, it is probably more likely due to my brother and I having curly hair while my sisters have long wavy hair instead. 

I see the "Drakes wife's trainer" meme and can't help but feel this is how all ignorant people see me when I am out with my family. When I informed my work colleagues that I had a son and showed them pictures, they all had nervous smiles and congratulations until I later informed them of a DNA test. After I told my work buddies they told me everyone at work thought I got tricked into taking care of a white guys baby. I don't get why people seem to be completely content with the idea that a mixed guy can have a black baby but not a white baby. It's very annoying and makes every day public life somewhat uncomfortable. 

I love my family very much and this nuisance is only semi-agitating, but it just gets annoying having to give people basic genetics lessons every time they ask how my son came from me.


TLDR: Mixed people can have both black appearing and white appearing children, even if the parents don't have any obvious white features. I have a very white appearing son. I have had a DNA test and verified genetics. Many people are ignorant to the fact that he is 100% my son.

url:https://reddit.com/r/YouShouldKnow/comments/zwiuez/
author:always_and_for_never
subreddit:YouShouldKnow
score:4665
numComments:409
isOver18:False
hasPostBody:True